How to Contact MathWorks

Latest news:
www.mathworks.com

Sales and services:
www.mathworks.com/sales_and_services

User community:
www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral

Technical support:
www.mathworks.com/support/contact_us

Phone:
508-647-7000

The MathWorks, Inc.
1 Apple Hill Drive
Natick, MA 01760-2098

Financial Toolbox™ User's Guide

© COPYRIGHT 1995–2025 by The MathWorks, Inc.

The software described in this document is furnished under a license agreement. The software may be used or copied
only under the terms of the license agreement. No part of this manual may be photocopied or reproduced in any form
without prior written consent from The MathWorks, Inc.

FEDERAL ACQUISITION: This provision applies to all acquisitions of the Program and Documentation by, for, or through
the federal government of the United States. By accepting delivery of the Program or Documentation, the government
hereby agrees that this software or documentation qualifies as commercial computer software or commercial computer
software documentation as such terms are used or defined in FAR 12.212, DFARS Part 227.72, and DFARS 252.227-7014.
Accordingly, the terms and conditions of this Agreement and only those rights specified in this Agreement, shall pertain
to and govern the use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, and disclosure of the Program and
Documentation by the federal government (or other entity acquiring for or through the federal government) and shall
supersede any conflicting contractual terms or conditions. If this License fails to meet the government's needs or is
inconsistent in any respect with federal procurement law, the government agrees to return the Program and
Documentation, unused, to The MathWorks, Inc.

Trademarks

MATLAB and Simulink are registered trademarks of The MathWorks, Inc. See
www.mathworks.com/trademarks for a list of additional trademarks. Other product or brand names may be
trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders.

Patents

MathWorks products are protected by one or more U.S. patents. Please see www.mathworks.com/patents for
more information.