Creating the Portfolio Object

In this section...

“Syntax” on page 4-25

“Portfolio Problem Sufficiency” on page 4-25

“Portfolio Function Examples” on page 4-26

To create a fully specified mean-variance portfolio optimization problem, instantiate the Portfolio
object using Portfolio. For information on the workflow when using Portfolio objects, see
“Portfolio Object Workflow” on page 4-18.

Syntax

Use Portfolio to create an instance of an object of the Portfolio class. You can use Portfolio
in several ways. To set up a portfolio optimization problem in a Portfolio object, the simplest
syntax is:

p = Portfolio;

This syntax creates a Portfolio object, p, such that all object properties are empty.

The Portfolio object also accepts collections of argument name-value pair arguments for
properties and their values. The Portfolio object accepts inputs for public properties with the
general syntax:

p = Portfolio('property1', value1, 'property2', value2, ... );

If a Portfolio object already exists, the syntax permits the first (and only the first argument) of
Portfolio to be an existing object with subsequent argument name-value pair arguments for
properties to be added or modified. For example, given an existing Portfolio object in p, the
general syntax is:

p = Portfolio(p, 'property1', value1, 'property2', value2, ... );

Input argument names are not case-sensitive, but must be completely specified. In addition, several
properties can be specified with alternative argument names (see “Shortcuts for Property Names” on
page 4-30). The Portfolio object detects problem dimensions from the inputs and, once set,
subsequent inputs can undergo various scalar or matrix expansion operations that simplify the overall
process to formulate a problem. In addition, a Portfolio object is a value object so that, given
portfolio p, the following code creates two objects, p and q, that are distinct:

q = Portfolio(p, ...)

Portfolio Problem Sufficiency

A mean-variance portfolio optimization is completely specified with the Portfolio object if these
two conditions are met:

•
The moments of asset returns must be specified such that the property AssetMean contains a
valid finite mean vector of asset returns and the property AssetCovar contains a valid symmetric
positive-semidefinite matrix for the covariance of asset returns.

Creating the Portfolio Object

4-25