Fit a logistic regression model to the WOE data from the creditscorecard object. The
fitmodel function internally bins the training data, transforms it into WOE values, maps the
response variable so that 'Good' is 1, and fits a linear logistic regression model.

By default, fitmodel uses a stepwise procedure to determine which predictors should be in the
model, but optional input arguments can also be used, for example, to fit a full model. For more
information and examples, see fitmodel and step 3 in “Case Study for Credit Scorecard
Analysis” on page 8-71.

Alternatively, you can apply equality, inequality, or bound constraints to fit a logistic regression
model to the WOE data from the creditscorecard object using fitConstrainedModel.

5
Review and format credit scorecard points.

After fitting the logistic model, use displaypoints to summarize the scorecard points. By
default, the points are unscaled and come directly from the combination of Weight of Evidence
(WOE) values and model coefficients.

The formatpoints function lets you control scaling and rounding of scorecard points. For more
information and examples, see displaypoints and formatpoints and step 4 in “Case Study
for Credit Scorecard Analysis” on page 8-71.

Optionally, you can create a compact credit scorecard using

To create a compactCreditScorecard object, use compact to create a
compactCreditScorecard object. You can then use the following functions displaypoints,
score, and probdefault from the Risk Management Toolbox with the
compactCreditScorecard object..

6
Score the data.

The score function computes the scores for the training data.

An optional data input can also be passed to score, for example, validation data. The points per
predictor for each customer are also provided as an optional output. For more information and
examples, see score and step 5 in “Case Study for Credit Scorecard Analysis” on page 8-71.

7
Calculate the probability of default for credit scorecard scores.

The probdefault function to calculate the probability of default for training data.

In addition, you can compute likelihood of default for a different dataset (for example, a
validation data set) using the probdefault function. For more information and examples, see
probdefault and step 6 in “Case Study for Credit Scorecard Analysis” on page 8-71.

8
Validate the credit scorecard model.

Use the validatemodel function to validate the quality of the credit scorecard model.

You can obtain the Cumulative Accuracy Profile (CAP), Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC),
and Kolmogorov-Smirnov (KS) plots and statistics for a given dataset using the validatemodel
function. For more information and examples, see validatemodel and step 7 in “Case Study for
Credit Scorecard Analysis” on page 8-71.

For an example of this workflow, see “Case Study for Credit Scorecard Analysis” on page 8-71.

Credit Scorecard Modeling Workflow

8-53