applied to all indices. Dividend yields are ignored to simplify the model and its associated data
collection.

In contrast, the specification of the exposure matrix, sigma, depends on how the driving source of
uncertainty is modeled. You can model it directly as a Brownian motion (correlated Gaussian random
numbers implicitly mapped to Gaussian margins) or model it as a Brownian copula (correlated
Gaussian or t random numbers explicitly mapped to semi-parametric margins).

Because the CDF and inverse CDF (quantile function) of univariate distributions are both monotonic
transforms, a copula provides a convenient way to simulate dependent random variables whose
margins are dissimilar and arbitrarily distributed. Moreover, because a copula defines a given
dependence structure regardless of its margins, copula parameter calibration is typically easier than
estimation of the joint distribution function.

Once you have simulated sample paths, options are priced by the least squares regression method of
Longstaff & Schwartz (see Valuing American Options by Simulation: A Simple Least-Squares
Approach, The Review of Financial Studies, Spring 2001). This approach uses least squares to
estimate the expected payoff of an option if it is not immediately exercised. It does so by regressing
the discounted option cash flows received in the future on the current price of the underlier
associated with all in-the-money sample paths. The continuation function is estimated by a simple
third-order polynomial, in which all cash flows and prices in the regression are normalized by the
option strike price, improving numerical stability.

Import the Supporting Historical Dataset

Load a daily historical dataset of 3-month Euribor, the trading dates spanning the interval 07-
Feb-2001 to 24-Apr-2006, and the closing index levels of the following representative large-cap equity
indices:

•
TSX Composite (Canada)

•
CAC 40 (France)

•
DAX (Germany)

•
Nikkei 225 (Japan)

•
FTSE 100 (UK)

•
S&P 500 (US)

clear
load Data_GlobalIdx2
dates = datetime(dates,'ConvertFrom','datenum');

The following plots illustrate this data. Specifically, the plots show the relative price movements of
each index and the Euribor risk-free rate proxy. The initial level of each index has been normalized to
unity to facilitate the comparison of relative performance over the historical record.

nIndices  = size(Data,2)-1;     % Number of indices

prices = Data(:,1:end-1);

yields = Data(:,end);            % Daily effective yields
yields = 360 * log(1 + yields);  % Continuously-compounded, annualized yield

plot(dates, ret2tick(tick2ret(prices,'Method','continuous'),'Method','continuous'))

xlabel('Date')

14
Stochastic Differential Equations

14-72