Zk ∼N Hkb, C

for k = 1, ..., m.

The goal of multivariate normal regression is to obtain maximum likelihood estimates for b and C
given a collection of m observations z1, ..., zm of the random variables Z1, ..., Zm. The estimated
parameters are the p distinct elements of b and the n (n + 1)/2 distinct elements of C (the lower-
triangular elements of C).

Note Quasi-maximum likelihood estimation works with the same models but with a relaxation of the
assumption of normally distributed residuals. In this case, however, the parameter estimates are
asymptotically optimal.

Maximum Likelihood Estimation

To estimate the parameters of the multivariate normal linear regression model using maximum
likelihood estimation, it is necessary to maximize the log-likelihood function over the estimation
parameters given observations z1, ... , zm.

Given the multivariate normal model to characterize residual errors in the regression model, the log-
likelihood function is

L z1, …, zm; b, C = 1
2mnlog 2π + 1
2mlog det C

+ 1
2 ∑
k = 1

m

zk −Hkb TC−1 zk −Hkb .

Although the cross-sectional residuals must be independent, you can use this log-likelihood function
for quasi-maximum likelihood estimation. In this case, the estimates for the parameters b and C
provide estimates to characterize the first and second moments of the residuals. See Caines [1] for
details.

Except for a special case (see “Special Case of Multiple Linear Regression Model” on page 9-4), if
both the model parameters in b and the covariance parameters in C are to be estimated, the
estimation problem is intractably nonlinear and a solution must use iterative methods. Denote
estimates for the parameters b and C for iteration t = 0, 1, ... with the superscript notation b(t) and
C(t).

Given initial estimates b(0) and C(0) for the parameters, the maximum likelihood estimates for b and C
are obtained using a two-stage iterative process with

b t + 1 =
∑
k = 1

m
HkT C t −1Hk

−1

∑
k = 1

m
HkT C t −1zk

and

C t + 1 = 1
m ∑
k = 1

m

zk −Hkb t + 1
zk −Hkb t + 1 T

for t = 0, 1, ... .

Multivariate Normal Regression

9-3