Dynamic Portfolio Allocation in Goal-Based Wealth
Management for Multiple Time Periods

This example shows a dynamic programming strategy to maximize the probability of obtaining an
investor's wealth goal at the end of the investment horizon. This dynamic programming strategy is
known in the literature as a goal-based wealth management (GBWM) strategy. In GBWM, risk is not
necessarily measured using the standard deviation, the value-at-risk, or any other common risk
metric. Instead, risk is understood as the likelihood of not attaining an investor's goal. This
alternative concept of risk implies that, sometimes, in order to increase the probability of attaining an
investor’s goal, the optimal portfolio’s traditional risk (that is, standard deviation) must increase if
the portfolio is underfunded. In other words, for the investor’s view of risk to decrease, the traditional
view of risk must increase if the portfolio’s wealth is too low.

The objective of the investment strategy is to determine a dynamic portfolio allocation such that the
portfolios chosen at each rebalancing period are on the traditional mean-variance efficient frontier
and these portfolios maximize the probability of achieving the wealth goal G at the time horizon T.
This objective is represented as

max
A 0 , A 1 , …, A T −1

ℙW T ≥G ,

where W T  is the terminal portfolio wealth and A t  are the possible actions and allocations at time
t = 0, 1, …, T −1.

The dynamic portfolio problem consists of the following parts:

•
Time periods — Portfolio rebalancing periods

•
Actions — Portfolio weights rebalancing

•
States — Wealth levels

•
Value function — Probability of achieving the goal at the end of the investment period

•
Policy or strategy — Optimal actions at each state and time period

This example follows the GBWM strategy of Das [1 on page 4-378]. For an example of GBWM for a
single time period, see the “Single Period Goal-Based Wealth Management” on page 4-362 example.

Inputs for Investment Wealth Goals

Specify the initial wealth.

W0 = 100;

Specify the target wealth at the end of the investment horizon.

G = 200;

Define the time horizon.

T = 10;

Load the asset information.

load BlueChipStockMoments.mat

Dynamic Portfolio Allocation in Goal-Based Wealth Management for Multiple Time Periods

4-367