Clean price of the bond (current price without accrued interest), specified as a scalar or a NUMBONDS-
by-1 or 1-by-NUMBONDS vector.

Data Types: double

CouponRate — Annual percentage rate used to determine coupons payable on a bond
decimal

Annual percentage rate used to determine the coupons payable on a bond, specified as decimal using
a scalar or a NUMBONDS-by-1 or 1-by-NUMBONDS vector.

Data Types: double

Settle — Settlement date of bond
datetime array | string array | date character vector

Settlement date of the bond, specified as a scalar or a NUMBONDS-by-1 or 1-by-NUMBONDS vector using
a datetime array, string array, or date character vectors. The Settle date must be before the
Maturity date.

To support existing code, bndyield also accepts serial date numbers as inputs, but they are not
recommended.

Data Types: char | string | datetime

Maturity — Maturity date of bond
datetime array | string array | date character vector

Maturity date of the bond, specified as a scalar or a NUMBONDS-by-1 or 1-by-NUMBONDS vector using a
datetime array, string array, or date character vectors.

To support existing code, bndyield also accepts serial date numbers as inputs, but they are not
recommended.

Data Types: char | string | datetime

Name-Value Pair Arguments

Specify optional pairs of arguments as Name1=Value1,...,NameN=ValueN, where Name is the
argument name and Value is the corresponding value. Name-value arguments must appear after
other arguments, but the order of the pairs does not matter.

Before R2021a, use commas to separate each name and value, and enclose Name in quotes.

Example: Yield =
bndyield(Price,CouponRate,Settle,Maturity,'Period',4,'Basis',9)

Period — Number of coupon payments per year
2 (default) | numeric with values 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 12

Number of coupon payments per year, specified as the comma-separated pair consisting of 'Period'
and a scalar or a NUMBONDS-by-1 or 1-by-NUMBONDS vector using the values: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, or 12.

Data Types: double

Basis — Day-count basis of instrument
0 (default) | numeric values: 0,1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13

15
Functions

15-586