Many Financial Toolbox functions that require dates as input arguments accept date character
vectors, datetime arrays, or serial date numbers. If you are dealing with a few dates at the MATLAB
command-line level, date character vectors are more convenient. If you are using Financial Toolbox
functions on large numbers of dates, as in analyzing large portfolios or cash flows, performance
improves if you use datetime arrays or serial date numbers. For more information, see “Represent
Dates and Times in MATLAB”.

Date Conversions

Financial Toolbox provides functions that convert date character vectors to or from serial date
numbers. In addition, you can convert character vectors or serial date numbers to datetime arrays.

Functions that convert between date formats are:

datedisp
Displays a numeric matrix with date entries formatted as date character
vectors.

datenum
Converts a date character vector to a serial date number.

datestr
Converts a serial date number to a date character vector.

datetime
Converts from date character vectors or serial date numbers to create a
datetime array.

datevec
Converts a serial date number or date character vector to a date vector
whose elements are [Year Month Day Hour Minute Second].

m2xdate
Converts MATLAB serial date number to Excel® serial date number.

x2mdate
Converts Microsoft® Excel serial date number to MATLAB serial date
number.

For more information, see “Convert Between Text and datetime or duration Values”.

Convert Between Datetime Arrays and Character Vectors

A date can be a character vector composed of fields related to a specific date and time. There are
several ways to represent dates and times in several text formats. For example, all the following are
character vectors represent August 23, 2010 at 04:35:42 PM:

'23-Aug-2010 04:35:06 PM'
'Wednesday, August 23'
'08/23/10 16:35'
'Aug 23 16:35:42.946'

A date character vector includes characters that separate the fields, such as the hyphen, space, and
colon used here:

d = '23-Aug-2010 16:35:42'

Convert one or more date character vectors to a datetime array using the datetime function. For
the best performance, specify the format of the input character vectors as an input to datetime.

Note The specifiers that datetime uses to describe date and time formats differ from the specifiers
that the datestr, datevec, and datenum functions accept.

Handle and Convert Dates

2-3