accessible by the common t, Xt interface. This reflects the fact that GBM models are restricted
parameterizations that derive from the general SDE class.

As a convenience, you can specify parameters of restricted models, such as GBM models, as
traditional MATLAB® arrays of appropriate dimension. In this case, such arrays represent a static
special case of the more general dynamic situation accessible by the t, Xt  interface.

Moreover, when you enter parameters as functions, object constructors can verify that they return
arrays of correct size by evaluating them at the initial time and state. Otherwise, object constructors
have no knowledge of any particular functional form.

The following example illustrates a technique that includes dynamic behavior by mapping a
traditional MATLAB® time series array to a callable function with a t, Xt  interface. It also compares
the function with an otherwise identical model with constant parameters.

Because time series arrays represent dynamic behavior that must be captured by functions accessible
by the t, Xt  interface, you need utilities to convert traditional time series arrays into callable
functions of time and state. The following example shows how to do this using the conversion function
ts2func (time series to function).

Load a daily historical data set containing three-month Euribor rates and closing index levels of
France's CAC 40 spanning the time interval February 7, 2001 to April 24, 2006.

load Data_GlobalIdx2

Simulate risk-neutral sample paths of the CAC 40 index using a geometric Brownian motion (GBM)
model:

where r(t) represents evolution of the risk-free rate of return.

Furthermore, assume that you need to annualize the relevant information derived from the daily data
(annualizing the data is optional, but is useful for comparison to other examples), and that each
calendar year comprises 250 trading days.

dt      = 1/250;
returns = tick2ret(Dataset.CAC);
sigma   = std(returns)*sqrt(250);
yields  = Dataset.EB3M;
yields  = 360*log(1 + yields);

Compare the resulting sample paths obtained from two risk-neutral historical simulation approaches,
where the daily Euribor yields serve as a proxy for the risk-free rate of return.

The first approach specifies the risk-neutral return as the sample average of Euribor yields, and
therefore assumes a constant (non-dynamic) risk-free return.

nPeriods = length(yields);  % Simulated observations
rng(5713,'twister')
obj    = gbm(mean(yields),diag(sigma),'StartState',100)

obj = 
   Class GBM: Generalized Geometric Brownian Motion
   ------------------------------------------------

14
Stochastic Differential Equations

14-44