Portfolio Object Workflow

The Portfolio object workflow for creating and modeling a mean-variance portfolio is:

1
Create a Portfolio.

Create a Portfolio object for mean-variance portfolio optimization. For more information, see
“Creating the Portfolio Object” on page 4-25.

2
Estimate the mean and covariance for returns.

Evaluate the mean and covariance for portfolio asset returns, including assets with missing data
and financial time series data. For more information, see “Asset Returns and Moments of Asset
Returns Using Portfolio Object” on page 4-42.

3
Specify the Portfolio Constraints.

Define the constraints for portfolio assets such as linear equality and inequality, bound, budget,
conditional budget, group, group ratio, turnover, tracking error, 'Conditional' BoundType,
and MinNumAssets, MaxNumAssets constraints. For more information, see “Working with
Portfolio Constraints Using Defaults” on page 4-58 and “Working with 'Conditional' BoundType,
MinNumAssets, and MaxNumAssets Constraints Using Portfolio Objects” on page 4-81.

4
Validate the Portfolio.

Identify errors for the portfolio specification. For more information, see “Validate the Portfolio
Problem for Portfolio Object” on page 4-94.

5
Estimate the efficient portfolios and frontiers.

Analyze the efficient portfolios and efficient frontiers for a portfolio. For more information, see
“Estimate Efficient Portfolios for Entire Efficient Frontier for Portfolio Object” on page 4-98 and
“Estimate Efficient Frontiers for Portfolio Object” on page 4-122.

Alternatively, you can estimate an optimal portfolio with a user-defined objective function for a
Portfolio object. For details on using estimateCustomObjectivePortfolio to specify a
user-defined objective function, see “Solver Guidelines for Custom Objective Problems Using
Portfolio Objects” on page 4-119.

6
Postprocess the results.

Use the efficient portfolios and efficient frontiers results to set up trades. For more information,
see “Postprocessing Results to Set Up Tradable Portfolios” on page 4-130.

For an example of this workflow, see “Asset Allocation Case Study” on page 4-180 and “Portfolio
Optimization Examples Using Financial Toolbox” on page 4-161.

See Also

Related Examples

•
“Asset Allocation Case Study” on page 4-180

•
“Portfolio Optimization Examples Using Financial Toolbox” on page 4-161

•
“Portfolio Optimization with Semicontinuous and Cardinality Constraints” on page 4-190

•
“Black-Litterman Portfolio Optimization Using Financial Toolbox” on page 4-222

4
Mean-Variance Portfolio Optimization Tools

4-18