(Optional) Moment orders, specified as either a scalar or a NUMORDERS vector of nonnegative integer
moment orders. If no order specified, the default Order = 0, which is the shortfall probability. The
elpm function does not work for negative or a noninteger Order.

Data Types: double

Output Arguments

Moment — Expected lower partial moments
matrix

Expected Lower partial moments, returned as a NUMORDERS-by-NUMSERIES matrix of expected lower
partial moments with NUMORDERS Orders and NUMSERIES series, that is, each row contains expected
lower partial moments for a given Order. The output Moment for the lower partial moment
represents the moments of asset returns that fall below a minimum acceptable level of return.

Note To compute upper partial moments, reverse the signs of both the input Mean and MAR (do not
reverse the signs of either Sigma or the output). This function computes expected lower partial
moments with the mean and standard deviation of normally distributed asset returns. To compute
sample lower partial moments from asset returns which have no distributional assumptions, use lpm.

More About

Lower Partial Moments

Use lower partial moments to examine what is colloquially known as “downside risk.”

The main idea of the lower partial moment framework is to model moments of asset returns that fall
below a minimum acceptable level of return. To compute lower partial moments from data, use lpm to
calculate lower partial moments for multiple asset return series and for multiple moment orders. To
compute expected values for lower partial moments under several assumptions about the distribution
of asset returns, use elpm to calculate lower partial moments for multiple assets and for multiple
orders.

Version History
Introduced in R2006b

References

[1] Bawa, V.S. "Safety-First, Stochastic Dominance, and Optimal Portfolio Choice." Journal of
Financial and Quantitative Analysis. Vol. 13, No. 2, June 1978, pp. 255–271.

[2] Harlow, W.V. "Asset Allocation in a Downside-Risk Framework." Financial Analysts Journal. Vol. 47,
No. 5, September/October 1991, pp. 28–40.

[3] Harlow, W.V. and K. S. Rao. "Asset Pricing in a Generalized Mean-Lower Partial Moment
Framework: Theory and Evidence." Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis. Vol. 24,
No. 3, September 1989, pp. 285–311.

elpm

15-911