Returns with Negative Prices

Once considered a mathematical impossibility, negative prices have become an established aspect of
many financial markets. Negative prices arise in situations where investors determine that holding an
asset entails more risk than the current value of the asset. For example, energy futures see negative
prices because of costs associated with overproduction and limited storage capacity. In a different
setting, central banks impose negative interest rates when national economies become deflationary,
and the pricing of interest rate derivatives, traditionally based on positivity, have to be rethought (see
“Work with Negative Interest Rates Using Functions” (Financial Instruments Toolbox)). A negative
price encourages the buyer to take something from the seller, and the seller pays a fee for the service
of divesting.

MathWorks® Computational Finance products support several functions for converting between price
series p(t) and return series r(t). Price positivity is not a requirement. The returns computed from
input negative prices can be unexpected, but they have mathematical meaning that can help you to
understand price movements.

Negative Price Conversion

Financial Toolbox functions ret2tick and tick2ret support converting between price series p(t)
and return series r(t).

For simple returns (default), the functions implement the formulas

rs(t) =
ps(t)
ps(t −1) −1

ps(t) = ps(t −1)(rs(t) + 1) .

For continuous returns, the functions implement the formulas

rc(t) = log
pc(t)
pc(t −1)

pc(t) = pc(t −1)erc(t) .

The functions price2ret and ret2price implement the same formulas, but they divide by Δt in the
return formulas and they multiply by Δt in the price formulas. A positive factor of Δt (enforced by
required monotonic observation times) does not affect the behavior of the functions. Econometrics
Toolbox™ calls simple returns periodic, and continuous returns are the default. Otherwise, the
functionality between the set of functions is identical. This example concentrates on the Financial
Toolbox functions.

In the simple return formula, rs(t) is the percentage change (PC) in ps(t − 1) over the interval [t − 1,t]

PC =
ps(t)
ps(t −1) −1

ps(t) = ps(t −1) + PC ⋅ps(t −1) .

For positive prices, the range of PC is (−1,∞), that is, anything from a 100% loss (ps: ps(t − 1) → 0) to
unlimited gain. The recursion in the second equation gives the subsequent prices; ps(t) is computed
from ps(t − 1) by adding a percentage of ps(t − 1).

2
Performing Common Financial Tasks

2-32