Note You can specify combinations of array and function input parameters as needed.

Moreover, a parameter is identified as a deterministic function of time if the function accepts a scalar
time t as its only input argument. Otherwise, a parameter is assumed to be a function of time t and
state X(t) and is invoked with both input arguments.

BM = bm( ___ ,Name,Value) creates a bm object with additional options specified by one or more
Name,Value pair arguments.

Name is a property name and Value is its corresponding value. Name must appear inside single
quotes (''). You can specify several name-value pair arguments in any order as Name1,Value1,
…,NameN,ValueN

The BM object has the following “Properties” on page 15-66:

•
StartTime — Initial observation time

•
StartState — Initial state at time StartTime

•
Correlation — Access function for the Correlation input argument, callable as a function of
time

•
Drift — Composite drift-rate function, callable as a function of time and state

•
Diffusion — Composite diffusion-rate function, callable as a function of time and state

•
Simulation — A simulation function or method

Input Arguments

Mu — Mu represents the parameter μ
array or deterministic function of time | deterministic function of time and state

Mu represents the parameter μ, specified as an array or deterministic function of time.

If you specify Mu as an array, it must be an NVars-by-1 column vector representing the drift rate (the
expected instantaneous rate of drift, or time trend).

As a deterministic function of time, when Mu is called with a real-valued scalar time t as its only
input, Mu must produce an NVars-by-NVars matrix. If you specify Mu as a function of time and state,
it calculates the expected instantaneous rate of drift. This function must generate an NVars-by-1
column vector when invoked with two inputs:

•
A real-valued scalar observation time t.

•
An NVars-by-1 state vector Xt.

Data Types: double | function_handle

Sigma — Sigma represents the parameter V
array or deterministic function of time | deterministic function of time and state

Sigma represents the parameter V, specified as an array or deterministic function of time.

If you specify Sigma as an array, it must be an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix of instantaneous volatility
rates or as a deterministic function of time. In this case, each row of Sigma corresponds to a
particular state variable. Each column corresponds to a particular Brownian source of uncertainty,
and associates the magnitude of the exposure of state variables with sources of uncertainty.

bm

15-65