•
Minimum risk problems subject to constraints for return, linear equality, linear inequality,
turnover, and tracking error where the supported risk measures are variance, conditional
value-at-risk (CVaR), and mean-absolute-deviation (MAD)

•
Maximum return problems subject to constraints for linear equality, liner inequality, turnover,
risk, and tracking error where the supported risk measures are variance, CVaR, and MAD

Tracking error is supported only for mean-variance problems using the Portfolio object. For
more information on the supported constraints for a Portfolio, PortfolioCVaR, or
PortfolioMAD object, see Supported Constraints for Portfolio Optimization Using Portfolio
Objects on page 4-9.

•
Custom objective minimization or maximization. The custom objective function (using
estimateCustomObjectivePortfolio) must be continuous and convex subject to
constraints for return, risk, linear equality, linear inequality, tracking error, and turnover.

Tracking error is supported using the Portfolio object only when the objective is the return,
variance or Sharpe ratio. Sharpe ratio is supported only using the Portfolio object.

For more information on the supported constraints and nonlinear risk functions for Portfolio,
PortfolioCVaR, and PortfolioMAD objects, see Supported Constraints for Portfolio
Optimization Using Portfolio Objects on page 4-9 and “Portfolio Optimization Theory” on page 4-4.
The integer (binary) variables can come from either of the following sources: bounds on the
number of assets that can be selected in the portfolio, setting conditional (semicontinuous) bounds
on the assets, or adding a conditional budget constraint. For example, if asset i is selected, then xi
≥ lbi, otherwise xi = 0. These problems cannot be solved using the Optimization Toolbox solvers.
However, you can implement your own mixed-integer solver. For more information, see “Mixed-
Integer Quadratic Programming Portfolio Optimization: Problem-Based”.

•
Problems with turnover constraints and sell or buy costs

Although the continuous version of these problems can be solved by the Optimization Toolbox
solvers, the variable space must be manipulated to rewrite the nonsmooth constraints into
equivalent smooth constraints. Given that rewriting the problem requires optimization knowledge,
it is recommended to use the Portfolio, PortfolioCVaR, and PortfolioMAD objects instead.

Preferred Use of Portfolio, PortfolioCVaR, or PortfolioMAD Object

The general case for preferred use of the Portfolio, PortfolioCVaR, or PortfolioMAD object is:

•
Continuous problems with minimum risk, maximum return, and maximum Sharpe ratio that are
subject to linear equality, liner inequality, turnover, and tracking error constraints.

Sharpe ratio is supported only for mean-variance problems using the Portfolio object. For more
information on the supported constraints for a Portfolio, PortfolioCVaR, or PortfolioMAD
object, see Supported Constraints for Portfolio Optimization Using Portfolio Objects on page 4-9.

•
Custom objective minimization or maximization. The custom objective function (using
estimateCustomObjectivePortfolio) must be continuous and convex subject to constraints
for return, risk, linear equality, linear inequality, tracking error, and turnover.

Tracking error is supported using the Portfolio object only when the objective is the return,
variance or Sharpe ratio. Sharpe ratio is supported only using the Portfolio object.

The supported risk measures are variance, CVaR, and MAD. For more information on the supported
constraints for these risk measures, see Supported Constraints for Portfolio Optimization Using

When to Use Portfolio Objects Over Optimization Toolbox

4-135