•
Rate: The diffusion-rate function, G(t,Xt).

•
Alpha: The state vector exponent, which determines the format of D(t,Xt) of G(t,Xt).

•
Sigma: The volatility rate, V(t,Xt), of G(t,Xt).

Alpha and Sigma enable you to query the original inputs. (The combined effect of the individual
Alpha and Sigma parameters is fully encapsulated by the function stored in Rate.) The Rate
functions are the calculation engines for the drift and diffusion objects, and are the only
parameters required for simulation.

Note You can express drift and diffusion classes in the most general form to emphasize the
functional (t, Xt) interface. However, you can specify the components A and B as functions that adhere
to the common (t, Xt) interface, or as MATLAB arrays of appropriate dimension.

Example: G = diffusion(1, 0.3) % Diffusion rate function G(t,X)

Data Types: struct | double

Object Functions
interpolate
Brownian interpolation of stochastic differential equations (SDEs) for SDE, BM,
GBM, CEV, CIR, HWV, Heston, SDEDDO, SDELD, or SDEMRD models
simulate
Simulate multivariate stochastic differential equations (SDEs) for SDE, BM, GBM,
CEV, CIR, HWV, Heston, SDEDDO, SDELD, SDEMRD, Merton, or Bates models
simByEuler
Euler simulation of stochastic differential equations (SDEs) for SDE, BM, GBM,
CEV, CIR, HWV, Heston, SDEDDO, SDELD, or SDEMRD models
simByTransition
Simulate CIR sample paths with transition density
simByQuadExp
Simulate Bates, Heston, and CIR sample paths by quadratic-exponential
discretization scheme
simByMilstein
Simulate CIR process sample paths by Milstein approximation
simByMilstein2
Simulate CIR process sample paths by second order Milstein approximation

Examples

Create a cir Object

The Cox-Ingersoll-Ross (CIR) short rate class derives directly from SDE with mean-reverting drift

(SDEMRD): dXt = S(t)[L(t) −Xt]dt + D(t, Xt

1
2)V(t)dW

where D is a diagonal matrix whose elements are the square root of the corresponding element of the
state vector.

Create a cir object to represent the model: dXt = 0 . 2(0 . 1 −Xt)dt + 0 . 05Xt

1
2dW.

obj = cir(0.2, 0.1, 0.05)  % (Speed, Level, Sigma)

obj = 
   Class CIR: Cox-Ingersoll-Ross
   ----------------------------------------
     Dimensions: State = 1, Brownian = 1

15
Functions

15-86