•
MATLAB array. Specify an array to indicate a static (non-time-varying) parametric specification.
This array fully captures all implementation details, which are clearly associated with a
parametric form.

•
MATLAB function. Specify a function to provide indirect support for virtually any static, dynamic,
linear, or nonlinear model. This parameter is supported by an interface because all
implementation details are hidden and fully encapsulated by the function.

Note You can specify combinations of array and function input parameters as needed. Moreover, a
parameter is identified as a deterministic function of time if the function accepts a scalar time t as its
only input argument. Otherwise, a parameter is assumed to be a function of time t and state Xt and is
invoked with both input arguments.

Bates = bates( ___ ,Name,Value) sets “Properties” on page 15-195 using name-value pair
arguments in addition to the input arguments in the preceding syntax. Enclose each property name in
quotes.

The bates object has the following “Properties” on page 15-195:

•
StartTime — Initial observation time

•
StartState — Initial state at time StartTime

•
Correlation — Access function for the Correlation input argument

•
Drift — Composite drift-rate function

•
Diffusion — Composite diffusion-rate function

•
Simulation — A simulation function or method

Input Arguments

Return — Expected mean instantaneous rate of return of GBM price process
array | deterministic function of time | deterministic function of time and state

Expected mean instantaneous rate of return of the GBM price process, specified as an array, or a
deterministic function of time.

If you specify Return as an array, it must be scalar.

If you specify Return as a deterministic function of time, you call Return with a real-valued scalar
time t as its only input, it must return a scalar.

If you specify Return as a deterministic function of time and state, it must return a scalar when you
call it with two inputs:

•
A real-valued scalar observation time t

•
A 2-by-1 bivariate state vector Xt

Data Types: double | function_handle

Speed — Mean-reversion speed of CIR stochastic variance process
array | deterministic function of time | deterministic function of time and state

Mean-reversion speed of the CIR stochastic variance process, specified as an array or deterministic
function of time.

15
Functions

15-192