roughheston

Rough Heston model

Description

Creates and displays a roughheston object.

Use roughheston to create a rough Heston stochastic volatility model. Rough Heston models are
bivariate composite models, composed of two coupled and dissimilar univariate models, each driven
by a single Brownian motion source of risk over NPERIODS consecutive observation periods,
approximating continuous-time rough Heston stochastic volatility processes.

The first univariate model is a geometric Brownian motion (GBM) model with a stochastic volatility
function, and usually corresponds to a price process whose variance rate is governed by the second
univariate model. The second model incorporates the fractional Brownian motion (fBm) into a Cox-
Ingersoll-Ross (CIR) square root diffusion process that describes the evolution of the variance rate of
the coupled GBM price process.

Creation

Syntax

RoughHeston = roughheston(Return,Speed,Level,Volatility,Alpha)
RoughHeston = roughheston( ___ ,Name=Value)

Description

RoughHeston = roughheston(Return,Speed,Level,Volatility,Alpha) creates a default
RoughHeston object with “Properties” on page 15-229 for these required arguments.

Specify the required input parameters as one of the following types:

•
A MATLAB array. Specifying an array indicates a static (non-time-varying) parametric
specification. This array fully captures all implementation details, which are clearly associated
with a parametric form.

•
A MATLAB function. Specifying a function provides indirect support for virtually any static,
dynamic, linear, or nonlinear model. This parameter is supported through an interface because all
implementation details are hidden and fully encapsulated by the function.

Note You can specify combinations of array and function input parameters as needed. Moreover, a
parameter is identified as a deterministic function of time if the function accepts a scalar time t as its
only input argument. Otherwise, a parameter is assumed to be a function of time t and state X(t) and
is invoked with both input arguments.

RoughHeston = roughheston( ___ ,Name=Value) creates a RoughHeston object with additional
options specified by one or more name-value arguments to set the properties on page 15-229.

15
Functions

15-226