PortfolioMAD Object

In this section...

“PortfolioMAD Object Properties and Functions” on page 6-17

“Working with PortfolioMAD Objects” on page 6-17

“Setting and Getting Properties” on page 6-18

“Displaying PortfolioMAD Objects” on page 6-18

“Saving and Loading PortfolioMAD Objects” on page 6-18

“Estimating Efficient Portfolios and Frontiers” on page 6-18

“Arrays of PortfolioMAD Objects” on page 6-19

“Subclassing PortfolioMAD Objects” on page 6-20

“Conventions for Representation of Data” on page 6-20

PortfolioMAD Object Properties and Functions

The PortfolioMAD object implements mean absolute-deviation (MAD) portfolio optimization and is
derived from the abstract class AbstractPortfolio. Every property and function of the
PortfolioMAD object is public, although some properties and functions are hidden. The
PortfolioMAD object is a value object where every instance of the object is a distinct version of the
object. Since the PortfolioMAD object is also a MATLAB object, it inherits the default functions
associated with MATLAB objects.

Working with PortfolioMAD Objects

The PortfolioMAD object and its functions are an interface for mean absolute-deviation portfolio
optimization. So, almost everything you do with the PortfolioMAD object can be done using the
functions. The basic workflow is:

1
Design your portfolio problem.

2
Use PortfolioMAD to create the PortfolioMAD object or use the various set functions to set
up your portfolio problem.

3
Use estimate functions to solve your portfolio problem.

In addition, functions are available to help you view intermediate results and to diagnose your
computations. Since MATLAB features are part of a PortfolioMAD object, you can save and load
objects from your workspace and create and manipulate arrays of objects. After settling on a
problem, which, in the case of MAD portfolio optimization, means that you have either scenarios,
data, or moments for asset returns, and a collection of constraints on your portfolios, use
PortfolioMAD to set the properties for the PortfolioMAD object.

PortfolioMAD lets you create an object from scratch or update an existing object. Since the
PortfolioMAD object is a value object, it is easy to create a basic object, then use functions to build
upon the basic object to create new versions of the basic object. This is useful to compare a basic
problem with alternatives derived from the basic problem. For details, see “Creating the
PortfolioMAD Object” on page 6-22.

PortfolioMAD Object

6-17