define a Processes function to signal early termination of a trial, and offers significant performance
benefits in some situations (for example, pricing down-and-out barrier options).

Data Types: cell | function

Output Arguments

Paths — Simulated paths of correlated state variables
array

Simulated paths of correlated state variables for a heston, bates, or cir model, returned as a
(NPeriods + 1)-by-NVars-by-NTrials three-dimensional time series array.

For a given trial, each row of Paths is the transpose of the state vector Xt at time t. When
StorePaths is set to false, simByQuadExp returns Paths as an empty matrix.

Times — Observation times associated with simulated paths
column vector

Observation times for a heston, bates, or cir model associated with the simulated paths, returned as a
(NPeriods + 1)-by-1 column vector. Each element of Times is associated with the corresponding
row of Paths.

Z — Dependent random variates for generating Brownian motion vector
array

Dependent random variates for a heston, bates, or cir model for generating the Brownian motion
vector (Wiener processes) that drive the simulation, returned as an (NPeriods ⨉ NSteps)-by-
NBrowns-by-NTrials three-dimensional time-series array.

N — Dependent random variates for generating jump counting process vector
array

Dependent random variates for a bates model for generating the jump counting process vector,
returned as a (NPeriods ⨉ NSteps)-by-NJumps-by-NTrials three-dimensional time-series array.

More About

Antithetic Sampling

Simulation methods allow you to specify a popular variance reduction technique called antithetic
sampling.

This technique attempts to replace one sequence of random observations with another of the same
expected value, but smaller variance. In a typical Monte Carlo simulation, each sample path is
independent and represents an independent trial. However, antithetic sampling generates sample
paths in pairs. The first path of the pair is referred to as the primary path, and the second as the
antithetic path. Any given pair is independent of any other pair, but the two paths within each pair
are highly correlated. Antithetic sampling literature often recommends averaging the discounted
payoffs of each pair, effectively halving the number of Monte Carlo trials.

This technique attempts to reduce variance by inducing negative dependence between paired input
samples, ideally resulting in negative dependence between paired output samples. The greater the
extent of negative dependence, the more effective antithetic sampling is.

15
Functions

15-380