Holidays — Dates for holidays
holidays.m used (default) | datetime array | string array | date character vector

Dates for holidays, specified as NHOLIDAYS-by-1 vector using a datetime array, string array, or date
character vectors. Holidays are used in computing business days.

To support existing code, floatmargin also accepts serial date numbers as inputs, but they are not
recommended.

Data Types: char | string | datetime

BusinessDayConvention — Business day conventions
'actual' (default) | character vector with values'actual', 'follow', 'modifiedfollow',
'previous'or 'modifiedprevious'

Business day conventions, specified as a NINST-by-1 cell array of character vectors of business day
conventions to be used in computing payment dates. The selection for business day convention
determines how nonbusiness days are treated. Nonbusiness days are defined as weekends plus any
other date that businesses are not open (for example, statutory holidays). Values are:

•
'actual' — Nonbusiness days are effectively ignored. Cash flows that fall on non-business days
are assumed to be distributed on the actual date.

•
'follow' — Cash flows that fall on a nonbusiness day are assumed to be distributed on the
following business day.

•
'modifiedfollow' — Cash flows that fall on a non-business day are assumed to be distributed
on the following business day. However if the following business day is in a different month, the
previous business day is adopted instead.

•
'previous' — Cash flows that fall on a nonbusiness day are assumed to be distributed on the
previous business day.

•
'modifiedprevious' — Cash flows that fall on a nonbusiness day are assumed to be distributed
on the previous business day. However if the previous business day is in a different month, the
following business day is adopted instead.

Data Types: char | cell

Output Arguments

Margin — Spreads for floating-rate bond
numeric

Spreads for the floating-rate bond, returned as a NINST-by-1 vector.

AdjPrice — Adjusted price used to calculate spreads for SpreadType of adjustedsimple
and adjustedtotal
numeric

Adjusted price used to calculate spreads for SpreadType of adjustedsimple and adjustedtotal,
returned as a NINST-by-1 vector.

Version History
Introduced in R2012b

15
Functions

15-1054