Creating the PortfolioMAD Object

In this section...

“Syntax” on page 6-22

“PortfolioMAD Problem Sufficiency” on page 6-22

“PortfolioMAD Function Examples” on page 6-23

To create a fully specified MAD portfolio optimization problem, instantiate the PortfolioMAD object
using PortfolioMAD. For information on the workflow when using PortfolioMAD objects, see
“PortfolioMAD Object Workflow” on page 6-16.

Syntax

Use PortfolioMAD to create an instance of an object of the PortfolioMAD class. You can use the
PortfolioMAD object in several ways. To set up a portfolio optimization problem in a
PortfolioMAD object, the simplest syntax is:

p = PortfolioMAD;

This syntax creates a PortfolioMAD object, p, such that all object properties are empty.

The PortfolioMAD object also accepts collections of argument name-value pair arguments for
properties and their values. The PortfolioMAD object accepts inputs for public properties with the
general syntax:

p = PortfolioMAD('property1', value1, 'property2', value2, ... );

If a PortfolioMAD object already exists, the syntax permits the first (and only the first argument) of
PortfolioMAD to be an existing object with subsequent argument name-value pair arguments for
properties to be added or modified. For example, given an existing PortfolioMAD object in p, the
general syntax is:

p = PortfolioMAD(p, 'property1', value1, 'property2', value2, ... );

Input argument names are not case-sensitive, but must be completely specified. In addition, several
properties can be specified with alternative argument names (see “Shortcuts for Property Names” on
page 6-26). The PortfolioMAD object tries to detect problem dimensions from the inputs and, once
set, subsequent inputs can undergo various scalar or matrix expansion operations that simplify the
overall process to formulate a problem. In addition, a PortfolioMAD object is a value object so that,
given portfolio p, the following code creates two objects, p and q, that are distinct:

q = PortfolioMAD(p, ...)

PortfolioMAD Problem Sufficiency

A MAD portfolio optimization problem is completely specified with the PortfolioMAD object if the
following three conditions are met:

•
You must specify a collection of asset returns or prices known as scenarios such that all scenarios
are finite asset returns or prices. These scenarios are meant to be samples from the underlying
probability distribution of asset returns. This condition can be satisfied by the setScenarios
function or with several canned scenario simulation functions.

6
MAD Portfolio Optimization Tools

6-22