Volatility Modeling for Soft Commodities

This example demonstrates a diverse set of statistical methods on page 14-92, machine learning
techniques on page 14-99, and time-series models on page 14-104 that you can apply broadly in the
field of volatility modeling. Specifically, this example focuses on the analysis, modeling, and
forecasting of volatility within the context of soft commodities.

Soft commodities refer to agricultural products that are grown rather than mined or extracted. These
commodities are typically perishable and have a shorter shelf life compared to hard commodities like
metals or energy resources. Soft commodities are highly influenced by uncertainties arising from
climate change-induced shifts in weather patterns, both in the short and the long term. With the
growing magnitude of these uncertainties, volatility modeling is becoming increasingly crucial.
Practitioners are actively seeking to enhance their ability to forecast market responses to climate
change impacts, emphasizing the importance of volatility modeling for soft commodities.

The goal of this example is to provide insights into the patterns and dynamics of volatility in the soft
commodities market and to improve the accuracy of volatility forecasts. With more accurate
forecasts, market participants can make more informed decisions to effectively manage risk in the
face of climate-related uncertainties.

Import Commodity Price Data

Import the historical price data for a set of commodities and then organize and process the data into
a suitable form for subsequent analysis. The data is sourced from the World Bank's monthly
commodity price data set. The data comprises monthly commodity prices for a diverse collection of
soft commodities.

Download the data set (CMO-Historical-Data-Monthly.xlsx) for the World Bank's monthly
commodity price data set [1 on page 14-109] by using the webread function and the local function
importCommodityData on page 14-109.

dataURL = "https://thedocs.worldbank.org/en/doc/5d903e848db1d1b83e0ec8f744e55570-0350012021/relat
webOpts = weboptions("ContentReader", @importCommodityData);
Prices = webread(dataURL, webOpts);

Process Raw Commodity Price Data

Convert the dates to datetime values and then convert the resulting table to a timetable.

Prices.Date = datetime(Prices.Date, ...
    "InputFormat", "yyyy'M'MM", ...
    "Format", "MMM yyyy");
Prices = table2timetable(Prices);

Associate high-level classes with each commodity. This example uses these high-level classes to
extract the soft commodities from the larger data set.

commodityClasses = categorical([repmat("Energy", 1, 10), ...
    repmat("Beverages", 1, 7), ...
    repmat("Oils and Meals", 1, 11), ...
    repmat("Grains", 1, 9), ...
    repmat("Other Food", 1, 10), ...
    repmat("Raw Materials", 1, 9), ...
    repmat("Fertilizers", 1, 5), ...

14
Stochastic Differential Equations

14-88