Level — Level represents the parameter L
array or deterministic function of time or deterministic function of time and state

Level represents the parameter L, specified as an array or deterministic function of time.

If you specify Level as an array, it must be an NVars-by-1 column vector of reversion levels.

As a deterministic function of time, when Level is called with a real-valued scalar time t as its only
input, Level must produce an NVars-by-1 column vector. If you specify Level as a function of time
and state, it must generate an NVars-by-1 column vector of reversion levels when called with two
inputs:

•
A real-valued scalar observation time t.

•
An NVars-by-1 state vector Xt.

Data Types: double | function_handle

Sigma — Sigma represents the parameter V
array or deterministic function of time or deterministic function of time and state

Sigma represents the parameter V, specified as an array or a deterministic function of time.

If you specify Sigma as an array, it must be an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix of instantaneous volatility
rates or as a deterministic function of time. In this case, each row of Sigma corresponds to a
particular state variable. Each column corresponds to a particular Brownian source of uncertainty,
and associates the magnitude of the exposure of state variables with sources of uncertainty.

As a deterministic function of time, when Sigma is called with a real-valued scalar time t as its only
input, Sigma must produce an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix. If you specify Sigma as a function of time
and state, it must return an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix of volatility rates when invoked with two
inputs:

•
A real-valued scalar observation time t.

•
An NVars-by-1 state vector Xt.

Data Types: double | function_handle

Note Although cir does not enforce restrictions on the signs of these input arguments, each
argument is specified as a positive value.

Output Arguments

CIR — CIR model
CIR object

CIR model, returned as a CIR object.

Properties

StartTime — Starting time of first observation, applied to all state variables
0 (default) | scalar

Starting time of first observation, applied to all state variables, specified as a scalar

cir

15-83