Output Arguments

Param — Estimates for parameters of the regression model
vector

Estimates for the parameters of the regression model, returned as a NUMPARAMS-by-1 column vector.

Covar — Estimates for the covariance of regression model's residuals
matrix

Estimates for the covariance of the regression model's residuals, returned as a NUMSERIES-by-
NUMSERIES matrix.

Resid — Residuals from regression
matrix

Residuals from the regression, returned as a NUMSAMPLES-by-NUMSERIES matrix. For any missing
values in Data, the corresponding residual is the difference between the conditionally imputed value
for Data and the model, that is, the imputed residual.

Note The covariance estimate Covariance cannot be derived from the residuals.

Info — Additional information from regression
structure

Additional information from the regression, returned as a structure. The structure has these fields:

•
Info.Obj — A variable-extent column vector, with no more than MaxIterations elements, that
contain each value of the objective function at each iteration of the estimation algorithm. The last
value in this vector, Obj(end), is the terminal estimate of the objective function. If you do
maximum likelihood estimation, the objective function is the log-likelihood function.

•
Info.PrevParameters — NUMPARAMS-by-1 column vector of estimates for the model parameters
from the iteration just prior to the terminal iteration.Info.PrevCovariance – NUMSERIES-by-
NUMSERIES matrix of estimates for the covariance parameters from the iteration just prior to the
terminal iteration.

More About

Multivariate Normal Regression

Multivariate normal regression is a statistical modeling approach that extends traditional regression
techniques to situations where the dependent variable is multivariate, meaning it consists of multiple
correlated outcomes.

Multivariate normal regression is particularly useful in fields where researchers are interested in
understanding the relationships between several response variables and one or more predictor
variables.

Version History
Introduced in R2006a

15
Functions

15-874