Credit Scorecard Modeling Workflow

Create, model, and analyze credit scorecards as follows.

1
Use screenpredictors from Risk Management Toolbox™ to pare down a potentially large set
of predictors to a subset that is most predictive of the credit score card response variable. Use
this subset of predictors when creating the creditscorecard object. In addition, you can use
Threshold Predictors to interactively set credit scorecard predictor thresholds using the output
from screenpredictors.

Create a creditscorecard object for credit scorecard analysis by specifying “training” data in
table format. The training data, sometimes called the modeling view, is the result of multiple data
preparation tasks (see “About Credit Scorecards” on page 8-49) that must be performed before
creating a creditscorecard object.

You can use optional input arguments for creditscorecard to specify scorecard properties
such as the response variable and the GoodLabel. Perform some initial data exploration when
the creditscorecard object is created, although data analysis is usually done in combination
with data binning (see step 2). For more information and examples, see creditscorecard and
step 1 in “Case Study for Credit Scorecard Analysis” on page 8-71.

2
Create a creditscorecard object using training data.

When you create a creditscorecard object for credit scorecard, you can specify “training”
data in table format. The training data, sometimes called the modeling view, is the result of
multiple data preparation tasks (see “About Credit Scorecards” on page 8-49) that must be
performed before creating a creditscorecard object.

You can use optional input arguments for creditscorecard to specify scorecard properties
such as the response variable and the GoodLabel. Perform some initial data exploration when
the creditscorecard object is created, although data analysis is usually done in combination
with data binning (see step 2). For more information and examples, see creditscorecard and
step 1 in “Case Study for Credit Scorecard Analysis” on page 8-71.

3
Bin the data.

Perform manual or automatic binning of the data loaded into the creditscorecard object.

A common starting point is to apply automatic binning to all or selected variables using
autobinning, report using bininfo, and visualize bin information with respect to bin counts
and statistics or association measures such as Weight of Evidence (WOE) using plotbins. The
bins can be modified or fine-tuned either manually using modifybins or with a different
automatic binning algorithm using autobinning. Bins that show a close-to-linear trend in the
WOE are frequently desired in the credit scorecard context.

Alternatively, with Risk Management Toolbox, you can use the Binning Explorer app to
interactively bin. The Binning Explorer enables you to interactively apply a binning algorithm and
modify bins. For more information, see Binning Explorer.

For more information and examples, see autobinning, modifybins, bininfo, and plotbins
and step 2 in “Case Study for Credit Scorecard Analysis” on page 8-71.

4
Fit a logistic regression model.

8
Credit Risk Analysis

8-52