Data, specified as an NUMSAMPLES-by-NUMSERIES matrix with NUMSAMPLES samples of a NUMSERIES-
dimensional random vector. Missing values are indicated by NaNs. Only samples that are entirely
NaNs are ignored. (To ignore samples with at least one NaN, use mvnrmle.)

Data Types: double

Design — Design model
matrix | cell array

Design model, specified as a matrix or a cell array that handles two model structures:

•
If NUMSERIES = 1, Design is a NUMSAMPLES-by-NUMPARAMS matrix with known values. This
structure is the standard form for regression on a single series.

•
If NUMSERIES ≥ 1, Design is a cell array. The cell array contains either one or NUMSAMPLES cells.
Each cell contains a NUMSERIES-by-NUMPARAMS matrix of known values.

If Design has a single cell, it is assumed to have the same Design matrix for each sample. If
Design has more than one cell, each cell contains a Design matrix for each sample.

Data Types: double | cell

Covariance — Estimates for covariance of regression residuals
matrix

Estimates for the covariance of the regression residuals, specified as an NUMSERIES-by-NUMSERIES
matrix.

Data Types: double

Method — Method of calculation for the information matrix
'hessian' (default) | character vector

(Optional) Method of calculation for the information matrix, specified as a character vector defined
as:

•
'hessian' — The expected Hessian matrix of the observed log-likelihood function. This method
is recommended since the resultant standard errors incorporate the increased uncertainties due
to missing data.

•
'fisher' — The Fisher information matrix.

Note If Method = 'fisher', to obtain more quickly just the standard errors of variance
estimates without the standard errors of the covariance estimates, set CovarFormat =
'diagonal' regardless of the form of the covariance matrix.

Data Types: char

CovarFormat — Format for the covariance matrix
'full' (default) | character vector

(Optional) Format for the covariance matrix, specified as a character vector. The choices are:

•
'full' — Compute the full covariance matrix.

•
'diagonal' — Force the covariance matrix to be a diagonal matrix.

Data Types: char

15
Functions

15-882