AdjustCashFlowsBasis — Adjust cash flows according to accrual amount
0 (not in effect) (default) | nonnegative integer 0 or 1

Adjusts cash flows according to the accrual amount, specified as a NINST-by-1 vector of logicals.

Note Usually you want to set AdjustCashFlowsBasis to 1, so cash flows are calculated with
adjustments on accrual amounts. The default is set to 0 to be consistent with floatbyzero.

Data Types: logical

Holidays — Dates for holidays
holidays.m used (default) | datetime array | string array | date character vector | serial date
number

Dates for holidays, specified as NHOLIDAYS-by-1 vector using a datetime array, string array, or date
character vectors. Holidays are used in computing business days.

To support existing code, floatdiscmargin also accepts serial date numbers as inputs, but they are
not recommended.

Data Types: char | string | datetime

BusinessDayConvention — Business day conventions
'actual' (default) | character vector with values'actual', 'follow', 'modifiedfollow',
'previous'or 'modifiedprevious'

Business day conventions, specified as a NINST-by-1 cell array of character vectors of business day
conventions to be used in computing payment dates. The selection for business day convention
determines how nonbusiness days are treated. Nonbusiness days are defined as weekends plus any
other date that businesses are not open (for example, statutory holidays). Values are:

•
'actual' — Nonbusiness days are effectively ignored. Cash flows that fall on non-business days
are assumed to be distributed on the actual date.

•
'follow' — Cash flows that fall on a nonbusiness day are assumed to be distributed on the
following business day.

•
'modifiedfollow' — Cash flows that fall on a non-business day are assumed to be distributed
on the following business day. However if the following business day is in a different month, the
previous business day is adopted instead.

•
'previous' — Cash flows that fall on a nonbusiness day are assumed to be distributed on the
previous business day.

•
'modifiedprevious' — Cash flows that fall on a nonbusiness day are assumed to be distributed
on the previous business day. However if the previous business day is in a different month, the
following business day is adopted instead.

Data Types: char | cell

Output Arguments

Margin — Discount margin
numeric

15
Functions

15-1048