is to be ignored given any missing values in the sample, the problem is said to be a problem “without
missing data.” If a sample is to be ignored if and only if every element of the sample is missing, the
problem is said to be a problem “with missing data” since the estimation must account for possible
NaN values in the data.

In general, Data may or may not have missing values and Design should have no missing values. In
some cases, however, if an observation in Data is to be ignored, the corresponding elements in
Design are also ignored. Consult the function reference pages for details.

Multivariate Normal Regression Without Missing Data

You can use the following functions for multivariate normal regression without missing data.

mvnrmle
Estimate model parameters, residuals, and the residual
covariance.

mvnrstd
Estimate standard errors of model and covariance parameters.

mvnrfish
Estimate the Fisher information matrix.

mvnrobj
Calculate the log-likelihood function.

The first two functions are the main estimation functions. The second two are supporting functions
that can be used for more detailed analyses.

Multivariate Normal Regression With Missing Data

You can use the following functions for multivariate normal regression with missing data.

ecmmvnrmle
Estimate model parameters, residuals, and the residual
covariance.

ecmmvnrstd
Estimate standard errors of model and covariance parameters.

ecmmvnrfish
Estimate the Fisher information matrix.

ecmmvnrobj
Calculate the log-likelihood function.

The first two functions are the main estimation functions. The second two are supporting functions
used for more detailed analyses.

Least-Squares Regression With Missing Data

You can use the following functions for least-squares regression with missing data or for covariance-
weighted least-squares regression with a fixed covariance matrix.

ecmlsrmle
Estimate model parameters, residuals, and the residual
covariance.

ecmlsrobj
Calculate the least-squares objective function (pseudo log-
likelihood).

To compute standard errors and estimates for the Fisher information matrix, the multivariate normal
regression functions with missing data are used.

Multivariate Normal Regression Functions

9-11