If you specify Alpha as an array, it represents an NVars-by-1 column vector of exponents.

As a deterministic function of time, when Alpha is called with a real-valued scalar time t as its only
input, Alpha must produce an NVars-by-1 matrix.

If you specify it as a function of time and state, Alpha must return an NVars-by-1 column vector of
exponents when invoked with two inputs:

•
A real-valued scalar observation time t.

•
An NVars-by-1 state vector Xt.

Data Types: double | function_handle

Sigma — Sigma represents the parameter V
array or deterministic function of time or deterministic function of time and state

Sigma represents the parameter V, specified as an array or a deterministic function of time.

If you specify Sigma as an array, it must be an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix of instantaneous volatility
rates or as a deterministic function of time. In this case, each row of Sigma corresponds to a
particular state variable. Each column corresponds to a particular Brownian source of uncertainty,
and associates the magnitude of the exposure of state variables with sources of uncertainty.

As a deterministic function of time, when Sigma is called with a real-valued scalar time t as its only
input, Sigma must produce an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix. If you specify Sigma as a function of time
and state, it must return an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix of volatility rates when invoked with two
inputs:

•
A real-valued scalar observation time t.

•
An NVars-by-1 state vector Xt.

Although the gbm constructor enforces no restrictions on the sign of Sigma volatilities, they are
specified as positive values.

Data Types: double | function_handle

Note Although sdeld does not enforce restrictions on the signs of Alpha or Sigma, each parameter
is specified as a positive value.

Output Arguments

SDELD — SDELD model
SDELD object

SDELD model, returned as a SDELD object.

Properties

StartTime — Starting time of first observation, applied to all state variables
0 (default) | scalar

Starting time of first observation, applied to all state variables, specified as a scalar

sdeld

15-175