Diffusion — Diffusion-rate component of continuous-time stochastic differential equations
(SDEs)
value stored from diffusion-rate function (default) | diffusion object or functions accessible by (t,
Xt)

This property is read-only.

Diffusion-rate component of continuous-time stochastic differential equations (SDEs), specified as a
drift object or function accessible by (t, Xt).

The diffusion-rate specification supports the simulation of sample paths of NVars state variables
driven by NBrowns Brownian motion sources of risk over NPeriods consecutive observation periods
for approximating continuous-time stochastic processes.

Use the diffusion function to create diffusion objects of the form

G(t, Xt) = D(t, Xt
α(t))V(t)

Here:

•
D is an NVars-by-NVars diagonal matrix-valued function.

•
Each diagonal element of D is the corresponding element of the state vector raised to the
corresponding element of an exponent Alpha, which is an NVars-by-1 vector-valued function.

•
V is an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix-valued volatility rate function Sigma.

•
Alpha and Sigma are also accessible using the (t, Xt) interface.

The displayed parameters for a diffusion object are:

•
Rate — Diffusion-rate function, G(t,Xt)

•
Alpha — State vector exponent, which determines the format of D(t,Xt) of G(t,Xt)

•
Sigma — Volatility rate, V(t,Xt), of G(t,Xt)

Alpha and Sigma enable you to query the original inputs. (The combined effect of the individual
Alpha and Sigma parameters is fully encapsulated by the function stored in Rate.) The Rate
functions are the calculation engines for the drift and diffusion objects, and are the only
parameters required for simulation.

Note You can express drift and diffusion objects in the most general form to emphasize the
functional (t, Xt) interface. However, you can specify the components A and B as functions that adhere
to the common (t, Xt) interface, or as MATLAB arrays of appropriate dimension.

Example: G = diffusion(1, 0.3) % Diffusion-rate function G(t,X)

Data Types: object

Simulation — User-defined simulation function or SDE simulation method
simulation by Euler approximation (simByEuler) (default) | function | SDE simulation method

User-defined simulation function or SDE simulation method, specified as a function or SDE simulation
method.

Data Types: function_handle

merton

15-207