Settlement date of the floating-rate bonds, specified as a scalar or a NINST-by-1 vector using a
datetime array, string array, or date character vectors. If supplied as a NINST-by-1 vector of dates, all
settlement dates must be the same (only a single settlement date is supported)

To support existing code, floatdiscmargin also accepts serial date numbers as inputs, but they are
not recommended.

Data Types: char | string | datetime

Maturity — Maturity date of the floating-rate bond
datetime array | string array | date character vector

Maturity date of the floating-rate bond, specified as a NINST-by-1 vector using a datetime array,
string array, or date character vectors.

To support existing code, floatdiscmargin also accepts serial date numbers as inputs, but they are
not recommended.

Data Types: char | string | datetime

RateInfo — Interest-rate information
numeric

interest-rate information, specified as NINST-by-2 vector where the:

•
First column is the stub rate between the settlement date and the first coupon rate.

•
Second column is the reference rate for the term of the floating coupons (for example, the 3-
month LIBOR from settlement date for a bond with a Reset of 4).

Note If the RateInfo argument is an annualized zero-rate term structure created by intenvset,
the zero discount margin is calculated.

Data Types: double

LatestFloatingRate — Rate for next floating payment set at last reset date
numeric

Rate for the next floating payment set at the last reset date, specified as NINST-by-1 vector.

Data Types: double

Name-Value Pair Arguments

Specify optional pairs of arguments as Name1=Value1,...,NameN=ValueN, where Name is the
argument name and Value is the corresponding value. Name-value arguments must appear after
other arguments, but the order of the pairs does not matter.

Before R2021a, use commas to separate each name and value, and enclose Name in quotes.

Example: Margin =
floatdiscmargin(Price,Spread,Settle,Maturity,RateInfo,LatestFloatingRate,'Res
et',2,'Basis',5)

15
Functions

15-1046