Valuation with Missing Data

In this section...

“Introduction” on page 9-26

“Capital Asset Pricing Model” on page 9-26

“Estimation of the CAPM” on page 9-27

“Estimation with Missing Data” on page 9-27

“Estimation of Some Technology Stock Betas” on page 9-27

“Grouped Estimation of Some Technology Stock Betas” on page 9-30

“References” on page 9-32

Introduction

The Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) is a venerable but often maligned tool to characterize
comovements between asset and market prices. Although many issues arise in CAPM implementation
and interpretation, one problem that practitioners face is to estimate the coefficients of the CAPM
with incomplete stock price data.

The following example shows how to use the missing data regression functions to estimate the
coefficients of the CAPM.

Capital Asset Pricing Model

Given a host of assumptions that can be found in the references (see Sharpe [11], Lintner [6], Jarrow
[5], and Sharpe, et. al. [12]), the CAPM concludes that asset returns have a linear relationship with
market returns. Specifically, given the return of all stocks that constitute a market denoted as M and
the return of a riskless asset denoted as C, the CAPM states that the return of each asset Ri in the
market has the expectational form

E[Ri] = αi + C + βi(E[M] −C)

for assets i = 1, ..., n, where βi is a parameter that specifies the degree of comovement between a
given asset and the underlying market. In other words, the expected return of each asset is equal to
the return on a riskless asset plus a risk-adjusted expected market return net of riskless asset
returns. The collection of parameters β1, ..., βn is called asset betas.

The beta of an asset has the form

βi = cov Ri, M

var M
,

which is the ratio of the covariance between asset and market returns divided by the variance of
market returns.Beta is the price volatility of a financial instrument relative to the price volatility of a
market or index as a whole. Beta is commonly used with respect to equities. A high-beta instrument is
riskier than a low-beta instrument. If an asset has a beta = 1, the asset is said to move with the
market; if an asset has a beta > 1, the asset is said to be more volatile than the market. Conversely, if
an asset has a beta < 1, the asset is said to be less volatile than the market.

9
Regression with Missing Data

9-26