Multivariate Normal Regression

In this section...

“Introduction” on page 9-2

“Multivariate Normal Linear Regression” on page 9-2

“Maximum Likelihood Estimation” on page 9-3

“Special Case of Multiple Linear Regression Model” on page 9-4

“Least-Squares Regression” on page 9-4

“Mean and Covariance Estimation” on page 9-4

“Convergence” on page 9-4

“Fisher Information” on page 9-4

“Statistical Tests” on page 9-5

Introduction

This section focuses on using likelihood-based methods for multivariate normal regression. The
parameters of the regression model are estimated via maximum likelihood estimation. For multiple
series, this requires iteration until convergence. The complication due to the possibility of missing
data is incorporated into the analysis with a variant of the EM algorithm known as the ECM
algorithm.

The underlying theory of maximum likelihood estimation and the definition and significance of the
Fisher information matrix can be found in Caines [1] and Cramér [2]. The underlying theory of the
ECM algorithm can be found in Meng and Rubin [8] and Sexton and Swensen [9].

In addition, these two examples of maximum likelihood estimation are presented:

•
“Portfolios with Missing Data” on page 9-21

•
“Estimation of Some Technology Stock Betas” on page 9-27

Multivariate Normal Linear Regression

Suppose that you have a multivariate normal linear regression model in the form

Z1
⋮
Zm

N

H1b

⋮
Hmb

,

C
0

⋱
0
C

,

where the model has m observations of n-dimensional random variables Z1, ..., Zm with a linear
regression model that has a p-dimensional model parameter vector b. In addition, the model has a
sequence of m design matrices H1, ..., Hm, where each design matrix is a known n-by-p matrix.

Given a parameter vector b and a collection of design matrices, the collection of m independent
variables Zk is assumed to have independent identically distributed multivariate normal residual
errors Zk – Hk b with n-vector mean 0 and n-by-n covariance matrix C for each k = 1, ..., m.

A concise way to write this model is

9
Regression with Missing Data

9-2