interpolate

Brownian interpolation of stochastic differential equations (SDEs) for SDE, BM, GBM, CEV, CIR, HWV,
Heston, SDEDDO, SDELD, or SDEMRD models

Syntax

[XT,T] = interpolate(MDL,Times,Paths)
[XT,T] = interpolate( ___ ,Name,Value)

Description

[XT,T] = interpolate(MDL,Times,Paths) performs a Brownian interpolation into a user-
specified time series array, based on a piecewise-constant Euler sampling approach.

[XT,T] = interpolate( ___ ,Name,Value) adds optional name-value pair arguments.

Examples

Stochastic Interpolation Without Refinement

Many applications require knowledge of the state vector at intermediate sample times that are
initially unavailable. One way to approximate these intermediate states is to perform a deterministic
interpolation. However, deterministic interpolation techniques fail to capture the correct probability
distribution at these intermediate times. Brownian (or stochastic) interpolation captures the correct
joint distribution by sampling from a conditional Gaussian distribution. This sampling technique is
sometimes referred to as a Brownian Bridge.

The default stochastic interpolation technique is designed to interpolate into an existing time series
and ignore new interpolated states as additional information becomes available. This technique is the
usual notion of interpolation, which is called Interpolation without refinement.

Alternatively, the interpolation technique may insert new interpolated states into the existing time
series upon which subsequent interpolation is based, by that means refining information available at
subsequent interpolation times. This technique is called interpolation with refinement.

Interpolation without refinement is a more traditional technique, and is most useful when the input
series is closely spaced in time. In this situation, interpolation without refinement is a good technique
for inferring data in the presence of missing information, but is inappropriate for extrapolation.
Interpolation with refinement is more suitable when the input series is widely spaced in time, and is
useful for extrapolation.

The stochastic interpolation method is available to any model. It is best illustrated, however, by way
of a constant-parameter Brownian motion process. Consider a correlated, bivariate Brownian motion
(BM) model of the form:

15
Functions

15-148