Note You can specify combinations of array and function input parameters as needed. Moreover, a
parameter is identified as a deterministic function of time if the function accepts a scalar time t as its
only input argument. Otherwise, a parameter is assumed to be a function of time t and state Xt and is
invoked with both input arguments.

Merton = merton( ___ ,Name,Value) sets “Properties” on page 15-205 using name-value pair
arguments in addition to the input arguments in the preceding syntax. Enclose each property name in
quotes.

The merton object has the following “Properties” on page 15-205:

•
StartTime — Initial observation time

•
StartState — Initial state at time StartTime

•
Correlation — Access function for the Correlation input argument

•
Drift — Composite drift-rate function

•
Diffusion — Composite diffusion-rate function

•
Simulation — A simulation function or method

Input Arguments

Return — Expected mean instantaneous rates of asset return
array | deterministic function of time | deterministic function of time and state

Expected mean instantaneous rates of asset return, denoted as B(t,Xt), specified as an array, a
deterministic function of time, or a deterministic function of time and state.

If you specify Return as an array, it must be an NVars-by-NVars matrix representing the expected
(mean) instantaneous rate of return.

If you specify Return as a deterministic function of time, when you call Return with a real-valued
scalar time t as its only input, it must return an NVars-by-NVars matrix.

If you specify Return as a deterministic function of time and state, it must return an NVars-by-
NVars matrix when you call it with two inputs:

•
A real-valued scalar observation time t

•
An NVars-by-1 state vector Xt

Data Types: double | function_handle

Sigma — Instantaneous volatility rates
array | deterministic function of time | deterministic function of time and state

Instantaneous volatility rates, denoted as V(t,Xt), specified as an array, a deterministic function of
time, or a deterministic function of time and state.

If you specify Sigma as an array, it must be an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix of instantaneous volatility
rates or a deterministic function of time. In this case, each row of Sigma corresponds to a particular
state variable. Each column corresponds to a particular Brownian source of uncertainty, and
associates the magnitude of the exposure of state variables with sources of uncertainty.

If you specify Sigma as a deterministic function of time, when you call Sigma with a real-valued
scalar time t as its only input, it must return an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix.

merton

15-203