•
If StorePaths is True (the default value) or is unspecified, simByHybrid returns Paths as a
three-dimensional time series array.

•
If StorePaths is False (logical 0), simByHybrid returns the Paths output array as an empty
matrix.

Data Types: logical

Processes — Sequence of end-of-period processes or state vector adjustments
[] (default) | function | cell array of functions

Sequence of end-of-period processes or state vector adjustments, specified as a function or cell array
of functions of the form

Xt = P(t, Xt)

The simByHybrid function runs processing functions at each observation period. They must accept
the current observation time t, and the current state vector Xt, and return a state vector that may be
an adjustment to the input state.

If you specify more than one processing function, simByHybrid invokes the functions in the order in
which they appear in the cell array. You can use this argument to specify boundary conditions,
prevent negative prices, accumulate statistics, and plot graphs.

Data Types: cell | function

Output Arguments

Paths — Simulated paths of correlated state variables
array

Simulated paths of correlated state variables, returned as an (NPeriods + 1)-by-NVars-by-
NTrials three-dimensional time series array.

For a given trial, each row of Paths is the transpose of the state vector Xt at time t for a given trial.
When the input flag StorePaths is False, simByHybrid returns Paths as an empty matrix.

Note The second state variable in the rough volatility model is volatility (not variance).

Times — Observation times associated with simulated paths
column vector

Observation times associated with the simulated paths, returned as an (NPeriods + 1)-by-1
column vector. Each element of Times is associated with the corresponding row of Paths.

Z — Dependent random variates used to generate Brownian motion vector
array

Dependent random variates used to generate the Brownian motion vector (Wiener processes) that
drive the simulation, returned as a (NPeriods ⨉ NSteps)-by-NBrowns-by-NTrials three-
dimensional time series array.

15
Functions

15-344