Creating the PortfolioCVaR Object

In this section...

“Syntax” on page 5-22

“PortfolioCVaR Problem Sufficiency” on page 5-22

“PortfolioCVaR Function Examples” on page 5-23

To create a fully specified CVaR portfolio optimization problem, instantiate the PortfolioCVaR
object using PortfolioCVaR. For information on the workflow when using PortfolioCVaR objects,
see “PortfolioCVaR Object Workflow” on page 5-16.

Syntax

Use PortfolioCVaR to create an instance of an object of the PortfolioCVaR class. You can use
PortfolioCVaR object in several ways. To set up a portfolio optimization problem in a
PortfolioCVaR object, the simplest syntax is:

p = PortfolioCVaR;

This syntax creates a PortfolioCVaR object, p, such that all object properties are empty.

The PortfolioCVaR object also accepts collections of argument name-value pair arguments for
properties and their values. The PortfolioCVaR object accepts inputs for public properties with the
general syntax:

p = PortfolioCVaR('property1', value1, 'property2', value2, ... );

If a PortfolioCVaR object already exists, the syntax permits the first (and only the first argument)
of PortfolioCVaR to be an existing object with subsequent argument name-value pair arguments
for properties to be added or modified. For example, given an existing PortfolioCVaR object in p,
the general syntax is:

p = PortfolioCVaR(p, 'property1', value1, 'property2', value2, ... );

Input argument names are not case-sensitive, but must be completely specified. In addition, several
properties can be specified with alternative argument names (see “Shortcuts for Property Names” on
page 5-26). The PortfolioCVaR object tries to detect problem dimensions from the inputs and,
once set, subsequent inputs can undergo various scalar or matrix expansion operations that simplify
the overall process to formulate a problem. In addition, a PortfolioCVaR object is a value object so
that, given portfolio p, the following code creates two objects, p and q, that are distinct:

q = PortfolioCVaR(p, ...)

PortfolioCVaR Problem Sufficiency

A CVaR portfolio optimization problem is completely specified with the PortfolioCVaR object if the
following three conditions are met:

•
You must specify a collection of asset returns or prices known as scenarios such that all scenarios
are finite asset returns or prices. These scenarios are meant to be samples from the underlying
probability distribution of asset returns. This condition can be satisfied by the setScenarios
function or with several canned scenario simulation functions.

5
CVaR Portfolio Optimization Tools

5-22