Price American Basket Options Using Standard Monte Carlo
and Quasi-Monte Carlo Simulation

Model the fat-tailed behavior of asset returns and assess the impact of alternative joint distributions
on basket option prices. Using various implementations of a separable multivariate Geometric
Brownian Motion (GBM) process, often referred to as a multi-dimensional market model, the example
simulates risk-neutral sample paths of an equity index portfolio and prices basket put options using
the technique of Longstaff & Schwartz.

In addition, this example also illustrates salient features of the Stochastic Differential Equation (SDE)
architecture, including

•
Customized random number generation functions that compare Brownian motion and Brownian
copulas

•
End-of-period processing functions that form an equity index basket and price American options
on the underlying basket based on the least squares method of Longstaff & Schwartz

•
Piecewise probability distributions and Extreme Value Theory (EVT)

•
Quasi-Monte Carlo simulation using for a gbm object using simByEuler.

This example also highlights important issues of volatility and interest rate scaling. It illustrates how
equivalent results can be achieved by working with daily or annualized data. For more information
about EVT and copulas, see “Using Extreme Value Theory and Copulas to Evaluate Market Risk”
(Econometrics Toolbox).

Overview of the Modeling Framework

The ultimate objective of this example is to compare basket option prices derived from different noise
processes. The first noise process is a traditional Brownian motion model whose index portfolio price
process is driven by correlated Gaussian random draws. As an alternative, the Brownian motion
benchmark is compared to noise processes driven by Gaussian and Student's t copulas, referred to
collectively as a Brownian copula.

A copula is a multivariate cumulative distribution function (CDF) with uniformly-distributed margins.
Although the theoretical foundations were established decades ago, copulas have experienced a
tremendous surge in popularity over the last few years, primarily as a technique for modeling non-
Gaussian portfolio risks.

Although numerous families exist, all copulas represent a statistical device for modeling the
dependence structure between two or more random variables. In addition, important statistics, such
as rank correlation and tail dependence are properties of a given copula and are unchanged by
monotonic transforms of their margins.

These copula draws produce dependent random variables, which are subsequently transformed to
individual variables (margins). This transformation is achieved with a semi-parametric probability
distribution with generalized Pareto tails.

The risk-neutral market model to simulate is

dXt = rXtdt + σXtdWt

where the risk-free rate, r, is assumed constant over the life of the option. Because this is a separable
multivariate model, the risk-free return is a diagonal matrix in which the same riskless return is

Price American Basket Options Using Standard Monte Carlo and Quasi-Monte Carlo Simulation

14-71