Role of Convexity in Portfolio Problems

When using a Portfolio object and the estimateCustomObjectivePortfolio function with the
Financial Toolbox solvers, the solvers return a local minimum, which is not guaranteed to be a global
minimum. A local minimum of a function is a point where the function value is smaller than the points
around it, but the value is larger than a distant point. A global minimum is the point where the
function value is smaller than at all other points. Convex functions play an important role in
optimization because they guarantee that all local minima are global minima. In other words, any
solution found by the solver is guaranteed to be a global minimum.

Another important feature of convex functions is that all tangents of the function lie underneath the
function. This feature is particularly useful in problems with cardinality constraints or conditional
bounds. For more information on cardinality constraints and conditional bounds, see “Working with
'Conditional' BoundType, MinNumAssets, and MaxNumAssets Constraints Using Portfolio Objects” on
page 4-81 and setMinMaxNumAssets. The Financial Toolbox internal solvers for portfolio problems
with binary variables use an iterative method that approximates the nonlinear functions (for example,
variance) with a collection of linear functions. The linear functions used to approximate the original
function are the tangents of the function at different points. Because the tangents for convex
functions always lie underneath the function, the Financial Toolbox solvers guarantee that the
approximation does not remove any minimum from the problem.

Using Financial Toolbox solvers for portfolio problems with nonconvex functions and cardinality
constraints or conditional bounds might result in suboptimal solutions. The reason is that the tangent
lines used to approximate the nonconvex functions might cut off different minima as demonstrated in
the following figure:

Role of Convexity in Portfolio Problems

4-157