p(i,j) = PortfolioMAD(p(i,j), ... );

This example calls PortfolioMAD for the (i,j) element of a matrix of PortfolioMAD objects in the
variable p.

If you set up an array of PortfolioMAD objects, you can access properties of a particular
PortfolioMAD object in the array by indexing so that you can set the lower and upper bounds lb
and ub for the (i,j,k) element of a 3-D array of PortfolioMAD objects with

p(i,j,k) = setBounds(p(i,j,k),lb, ub);

and, once set, you can access these bounds with

[lb, ub] = getBounds(p(i,j,k));

PortfolioMAD object functions work on only one PortfolioMAD object at a time.

Subclassing PortfolioMAD Objects

You can subclass the PortfolioMAD object to override existing functions or to add new properties or
functions. To do so, create a derived class from the PortfolioMAD class. This gives you all the
properties and functions of the PortfolioMAD class along with any new features that you choose to
add to your subclassed object. The PortfolioMAD class is derived from an abstract class called
AbstractPortfolio. Because of this, you can also create a derived class from
AbstractPortfolio that implements an entirely different form of portfolio optimization using
properties and functions of the AbstractPortfolio class.

Conventions for Representation of Data

The MAD portfolio optimization tools follow these conventions regarding the representation of
different quantities associated with portfolio optimization:

•
Asset returns or prices for scenarios are in matrix form with samples for a given asset going down
the rows and assets going across the columns. In the case of prices, the earliest dates must be at
the top of the matrix, with increasing dates going down.

•
Portfolios are in vector or matrix form with weights for a given portfolio going down the rows and
distinct portfolios going across the columns.

•
Constraints on portfolios are formed in such a way that a portfolio is a column vector.

•
Portfolio risks and returns are either scalars or column vectors (for multiple portfolio risks and
returns).

See Also
PortfolioMAD

Related Examples

•
“Creating the PortfolioMAD Object” on page 6-22

•
“Working with MAD Portfolio Constraints Using Defaults” on page 6-50

6
MAD Portfolio Optimization Tools

6-20