The diffusion class allows you to create diffusion-rate objects using diffusion:

G(t, Xt) = D(t, Xt
α(t))V(t)

where:

•
D is an NVars-by-NVars diagonal matrix-valued function.

•
Each diagonal element of D is the corresponding element of the state vector raised to the
corresponding element of an exponent Alpha, which is an NVars-by-1 vector-valued function.

•
V is an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix-valued volatility rate function Sigma.

•
Alpha and Sigma are also accessible using the (t, Xt) interface.

The displayed parameters for a diffusion object are:

•
Rate: The diffusion-rate function, G(t,Xt).

•
Alpha: The state vector exponent, which determines the format of D(t,Xt) of G(t,Xt).

•
Sigma: The volatility rate, V(t,Xt), of G(t,Xt).

Alpha and Sigma enable you to query the original inputs. (The combined effect of the individual
Alpha and Sigma parameters is fully encapsulated by the function stored in Rate.) The Rate
functions are the calculation engines for the drift and diffusion objects, and are the only
parameters required for simulation.

Note You can express drift and diffusion classes in the most general form to emphasize the
functional (t, Xt) interface. However, you can specify the components A and B as functions that adhere
to the common (t, Xt) interface, or as MATLAB arrays of appropriate dimension.

Example: G = diffusion(1, 0.3) % Diffusion rate function G(t,X)

Data Types: struct | double

Object Functions
interpolate
Brownian interpolation of stochastic differential equations (SDEs) for SDE, BM,
GBM, CEV, CIR, HWV, Heston, SDEDDO, SDELD, or SDEMRD models
simulate
Simulate multivariate stochastic differential equations (SDEs) for SDE, BM, GBM,
CEV, CIR, HWV, Heston, SDEDDO, SDELD, SDEMRD, Merton, or Bates models
simByEuler
Euler simulation of stochastic differential equations (SDEs) for SDE, BM, GBM,
CEV, CIR, HWV, Heston, SDEDDO, SDELD, or SDEMRD models
simByMilstein
Simulate diagonal diffusion for BM, GBM, CEV, HWV, SDEDDO, SDELD, or
SDEMRD sample paths by Milstein approximation
simByMilstein2
Simulate BM, GBM, CEV, HWV, SDEDDO, SDELD, SDEMRD process sample paths
by second order Milstein approximation

Examples

Create a sdeddo Object

The sdeddo class derives from the base sde class. To use this class, you must pass drift and
diffusion-rate objects to the sdeddo function.

sdeddo

15-169