Common Operations on the Portfolio Object

In this section...

“Naming a Portfolio Object” on page 4-33

“Configuring the Assets in the Asset Universe” on page 4-33

“Setting Up a List of Asset Identifiers” on page 4-33

“Truncating and Padding Asset Lists” on page 4-35

Naming a Portfolio Object

To name a Portfolio object, use the Name property. Name is informational and has no effect on any
portfolio calculations. If the Name property is nonempty, Name is the title for the efficient frontier plot
generated by plotFrontier. For example, if you set up an asset allocation fund, you could name the
Portfolio object Asset Allocation Fund:

p = Portfolio('Name','Asset Allocation Fund');
disp(p.Name)

Asset Allocation Fund

Configuring the Assets in the Asset Universe

The fundamental quantity in the Portfolio object is the number of assets in the asset universe. This
quantity is maintained in the NumAssets property. Although you can set this property directly, it is
derived from other properties such as the mean of asset returns and the initial portfolio. In some
instances, the number of assets may need to be set directly. This example shows how to set up a
Portfolio object that has four assets:

p = Portfolio('NumAssets', 4);
disp(p.NumAssets)

4

After setting the NumAssets property, you cannot modify it (unless no other properties are set that
depend on NumAssets). The only way to change the number of assets in an existing Portfolio
object with a known number of assets is to create a new Portfolio object.

Setting Up a List of Asset Identifiers

When working with portfolios, you must specify a universe of assets. Although you can perform a
complete analysis without naming the assets in your universe, it is helpful to have an identifier
associated with each asset as you create and work with portfolios. You can create a list of asset
identifiers as a cell vector of character vectors in the property AssetList. You can set up the list
using the next two functions.

Setting Up Asset Lists Using the Portfolio Function

Suppose that you have a Portfolio object, p, with assets with symbols 'AA'', 'BA', 'CAT', 'DD',
and 'ETR'. You can create a list of these asset symbols in the object using the Portfolio object:

p = Portfolio('assetlist', { 'AA', 'BA', 'CAT', 'DD', 'ETR' });
disp(p.AssetList)

Common Operations on the Portfolio Object

4-33