Portfolio Optimization Functions

The portfolio optimization functions assist portfolio managers in constructing portfolios that optimize
risk and return.

Capital Allocation
Description

portalloc
Computes the optimal risky portfolio on the efficient frontier, based on the
risk-free rate, the borrowing rate, and the investor's degree of risk aversion.
Also generates the capital allocation line, which provides the optimal
allocation of funds between the risky portfolio and the risk-free asset.

Efficient Frontier
Computation

Description

frontier
Computes portfolios along the efficient frontier for a given group of assets.
Generates a surface of efficient frontiers showing how asset allocation
influences risk and return over time.

portopt
Computes portfolios along the efficient frontier for a given group of assets.
The computation is based on a set of user-specified linear constraints.
Typically, these constraints are generated using the constraint specification
functions described below.

Warning portopt has been partially removed and will no longer accept
ConSet or varargin arguments. portopt will only solve the portfolio
problem for long-only fully invested portfolios. Use Portfolio instead. For
more information on migrating portopt code to Portfolio, see “portopt
Migration to Portfolio Object” on page 3-11.

Constraint
Specification

Description

portcons
Generates the portfolio constraints matrix for a portfolio of asset investments
using linear inequalities. The inequalities are of the type A*Wts' <= b,
where Wts is a row vector of weights.

portvrisk
Portfolio value at risk (VaR) returns the maximum potential loss in the value
of a portfolio over one period of time, given the loss probability level
RiskThreshold.

pcalims
Asset minimum and maximum allocation. Generates a constraint set to fix the
minimum and maximum weight for each individual asset.

pcgcomp
Group-to-group ratio constraint. Generates a constraint set specifying the
maximum and minimum ratios between pairs of groups.

pcglims
Asset group minimum and maximum allocation. Generates a constraint set to
fix the minimum and maximum total weight for each defined group of assets.

pcpval
Total portfolio value. Generates a constraint set to fix the total value of the
portfolio.

Portfolio Optimization Functions

3-3