Tolerance — Implied volatility termination tolerance
1e6 (default) | positive scalar numeric

Implied volatility termination tolerance, specified as the comma-separated pair consisting of
'Tolerance' and a positive scalar numeric. If empty or missing, the default is 1e6.

Note If you are using Method with a value of 'jackel2016', the Tolerance argument is ignored.

Data Types: double

Class — Option class from which implied volatility is derived
true (call option) (default) | logical | cell array of character vectors | string array

Option class indicating option type (call or put) from which implied volatility is derived, specified as
the comma-separated pair consisting of 'Class' and a logical indicator, cell array of character
vectors, or string array.

To specify call options, set Class = true or Class = {'call'}. To specify put options, set Class =
false or Class = {'put'} or Class = ["put"]. If Class is empty or unspecified, the default is a
call option.

Data Types: logical | cell | string

Method — Method for computing implied volatility
'jackel2016' (default) | character vector with values 'search' or 'jackel2016' | string with
values "search" or "jackel2016"

Method for computing implied volatility, specified as the comma-separated pair consisting of
'Method' and a character vector with a value of 'search' or 'jackel2016' or a string with a
value of "search" or "jackel2016".

Data Types: char | string

Output Arguments

Volatility — Implied volatility of underlying asset derived from European futures option
prices
decimal

Implied volatility of the underlying asset derived from European futures option prices, returned as a
decimal. If no solution is found, blkimpv returns NaN.

More About

Implied Volatility

Implied volatility is a measure of the market's expectations regarding the future volatility of an
asset's price.

Implied volatility is expressed as a percentage and indicates the expected annualized standard
deviation of the asset's returns.

15
Functions

15-480