•
If NUMSERIES ≥ 1, Design is a cell array. The cell array contains either one or NUMSAMPLES cells.
Each cell contains a NUMSERIES-by-NUMPARAMS matrix of known values.

If Design has a single cell, it is assumed to have the same Design matrix for each sample. If
Design has more than one cell, each cell contains a Design matrix for each sample.

Data Types: double | cell

Covariance — Estimates for the covariance of the residuals of the regression
matrix

Estimates for the covariance of the residuals of the regression, specified as an NUMSERIES-by-
NUMSERIES matrix.

Data Types: double

Method — Method of calculation for information matrix
'hessian' (default) | character vector with value 'hessian' or 'fisher'

(Optional) Method of calculation for the information matrix, specified as a character vector. The
choices are:

•
'hessian' — This is the default method using the expected Hessian matrix of the observed log-
likelihood function. This method is recommended since the resultant standard errors incorporate
the increased uncertainties due to missing data.

•
'fisher' — This computes using the Fisher information matrix.

Data Types: char

MatrixFormat — Parameters to be included in Fisher information matrix
'full' (default) | character vector with value 'full' or 'paramonly'

(Optional) Parameters to be included in the Fisher information matrix, specified as a character vector.
The choices are:

•
'full' — This is the default method that computes the full Fisher information matrix for both
model and covariance parameter estimates.

•
'paramonly' — This computes only components of the Fisher information matrix associated with
the model parameter estimates.

Data Types: char

CovarFormat — Format for covariance matrix
'full' (default) | character vector with value 'full' or 'diagonal'

(Optional) Format for the covariance matrix, specified as a character vector. The choices are:

•
'full' — This is the default method that computes the full covariance matrix.

•
'diagonal' — This forces the covariance matrix to be a diagonal matrix.

Data Types: char

ecmmvnrfish

15-867