Brownian motion construction method, specified as the comma-separated pair consisting of
'BrownianMotionMethod' and a string or character vector with one of the following values:

•
"standard" — The Brownian motion path is found by taking the cumulative sum of the Gaussian
variates.

•
"brownian-bridge" — The last step of the Brownian motion path is calculated first, followed by
any order between steps until all steps have been determined.

•
"principal-components" — The Brownian motion path is calculated by minimizing the
approximation error.

Note If an input noise process is specified using the Z input argument, BrownianMotionMethod is
ignored.

The starting point for a Monte Carlo simulation is the construction of a Brownian motion sample path
(or Wiener path). Such paths are built from a set of independent Gaussian variates, using either
standard discretization, Brownian-bridge construction, or principal components construction.

Both standard discretization and Brownian-bridge construction share the same variance and,
therefore, the same resulting convergence when used with the MonteCarloMethod using pseudo
random numbers. However, the performance differs between the two when the MonteCarloMethod
option "quasi" is introduced, with faster convergence for the "brownian-bridge" construction
option and the fastest convergence for the "principal-components" construction option.

Data Types: string | char

Z — Direct specification of the dependent random noise process for generating Brownian
motion vector
generates correlated Gaussian variates based on the Correlation member of the SDE object
(default) | function | three-dimensional array of dependent random variates

Direct specification of the dependent random noise process for generating the Brownian motion
vector (Wiener process) that drives the simulation, specified as the comma-separated pair consisting
of 'Z' and a function or an (NPeriods * NSteps)-by-NBrowns-by-NNTrials three-dimensional
array of dependent random variates.

The input argument Z allows you to directly specify the noise generation process. This process takes
precedence over the Correlation parameter of the input merton object and the value of the
Antithetic input flag.

Specifically, when Z is specified, Correlation is not explicitly used to generate the Gaussian
variates that drive the Brownian motion. However, Correlation is still used in the expression that
appears in the exponential term of the log[Xt] Euler scheme. Thus, you must specify Z as a correlated
Gaussian noise process whose correlation structure is consistently captured by Correlation.

Note If you specify Z as a function, it must return an NBrowns-by-1 column vector, and you must call
it with two inputs:

•
A real-valued scalar observation time t

•
An NVars-by-1 state vector Xt

15
Functions

15-368