Pricing and Analyzing Equity Derivatives

In this section...

“Introduction” on page 2-39

“Sensitivity Measures” on page 2-39

“Analysis Models” on page 2-40

Introduction

These toolbox functions compute prices, sensitivities, and profits for portfolios of options or other
equity derivatives. They use the Black-Scholes model for European options and the binomial model
for American options. Such measures are useful for managing portfolios and for executing collars,
hedges, and straddles:

•
A collar is an interest-rate option that guarantees that the rate on a floating-rate loan will not
exceed a certain upper level nor fall below a lower level. It is designed to protect an investor
against wide fluctuations in interest rates.

•
A hedge is a securities transaction that reduces or offsets the risk on an existing investment
position.

•
A straddle is a strategy used in trading options or futures. It involves simultaneously purchasing
put and call options with the same exercise price and expiration date, and it is most profitable
when the price of the underlying security is very volatile.

Sensitivity Measures

There are six basic sensitivity measures associated with option pricing: delta, gamma, lambda, rho,
theta, and vega — the “greeks.” The toolbox provides functions for calculating each sensitivity and for
implied volatility.

Delta

Delta of a derivative security is the rate of change of its price relative to the price of the underlying
asset. It is the first derivative of the curve that relates the price of the derivative to the price of the
underlying security. When delta is large, the price of the derivative is sensitive to small changes in
the price of the underlying security.

Gamma

Gamma of a derivative security is the rate of change of delta relative to the price of the underlying
asset; that is, the second derivative of the option price relative to the security price. When gamma is
small, the change in delta is small. This sensitivity measure is important for deciding how much to
adjust a hedge position.

Lambda

Lambda, also known as the elasticity of an option, represents the percentage change in the price of
an option relative to a 1% change in the price of the underlying security.

Rho

Rho is the rate of change in option price relative to the risk-free interest rate.

Pricing and Analyzing Equity Derivatives

2-39