•
A MATLAB array. Specifying an array indicates a static (non-time-varying) parametric
specification. This array fully captures all implementation details, which are clearly associated
with a parametric form.

•
A MATLAB function. Specifying a function provides indirect support for virtually any static,
dynamic, linear, or nonlinear model. This parameter is supported via an interface, because all
implementation details are hidden and fully encapsulated by the function.

Note You can specify combinations of array and function input parameters as needed.

Moreover, a parameter is identified as a deterministic function of time if the function accepts a scalar
time t as its only input argument. Otherwise, a parameter is assumed to be a function of time t and
state X(t) and is invoked with both input arguments.

The drift object that you create encapsulates the composite drift-rate specification and returns the
following displayed parameters:

•
Rate — The drift-rate function, F. Rate is the drift-rate calculation engine. It accepts the current
time t and an NVars-by-1 state vector Xt as inputs, and returns an NVars-by-1 drift-rate vector.

•
A — Access function for the input argument A.

•
B — Access function for the input argument B.

Input Arguments

A — A represents the parameter A
array or deterministic function of time

A represents the parameter A, specified as an array or deterministic function of time.

If you specify A as an array, it must be an NVars-by-1 column vector of intercepts.

As a deterministic function of time, when A is called with a real-valued scalar time t as its only input,
A must produce an NVars-by-1 column vector. If you specify A as a function of time and state, it must
generate an NVars-by-1 column vector of intercepts when invoked with two inputs:

•
A real-valued scalar observation time t.

•
An NVars-by-1 state vector Xt.

Data Types: double | function_handle

B — B represents the parameter B
array or deterministic function of time

B represents the parameter B, specified as an array or deterministic function of time.

If you specify B as an array, it must be an NVars-by-NVars two-dimensional matrix of state vector
coefficients.

As a deterministic function of time, when B is called with a real-valued scalar time t as its only input,
B must produce an NVars-by-NVars matrix. If you specify B as a function of time and state, it must
generate an NVars-by-NVars matrix of state vector coefficients when invoked with two inputs:

•
A real-valued scalar observation time t.

drift

15-97