Name-Value Pair Arguments

Specify optional pairs of arguments as Name1=Value1,...,NameN=ValueN, where Name is the
argument name and Value is the corresponding value. Name-value arguments must appear after
other arguments, but the order of the pairs does not matter.

Before R2021a, use commas to separate each name and value, and enclose Name in quotes.

Example: [Paths,Times,Z,N] =
simBySolution(merton,NPeriods,'DeltaTime',dt,'NNTrials',10)

NNTrials — Simulated NTrials (sample paths)
1 (single path of correlated state variables) (default) | positive integer

Simulated NTrials (sample paths) of NPeriods observations each, specified as the comma-separated
pair consisting of 'NNTrials' and a positive scalar integer.

Data Types: double

DeltaTime — Positive time increments between observations
1 (default) | scalar | column vector

Positive time increments between observations, specified as the comma-separated pair consisting of
'DeltaTime' and a scalar or an NPeriods-by-1 column vector.

DeltaTime represents the familiar dt found in stochastic differential equations, and determines the
times at which the simulated paths of the output state variables are reported.

Data Types: double

NSteps — Number of intermediate time steps within each time increment
1 (indicating no intermediate evaluation) (default) | positive integer

Number of intermediate time steps within each time increment dt (specified as DeltaTime),
specified as the comma-separated pair consisting of 'NSteps' and a positive scalar integer.

The simBySolution function partitions each time increment dt into NSteps subintervals of length
dt/NSteps, and refines the simulation by evaluating the simulated state vector at NSteps − 1
intermediate points. Although simBySolution does not report the output state vector at these
intermediate points, the refinement improves accuracy by allowing the simulation to more closely
approximate the underlying continuous-time process.

Data Types: double

Antithetic — Flag to use antithetic sampling to generate the Gaussian random variates
false (no antithetic sampling) (default) | logical with values true or false

Flag to use antithetic sampling to generate the Gaussian random variates that drive the Brownian
motion vector (Wiener processes), specified as the comma-separated pair consisting of
'Antithetic' and a scalar numeric or logical 1 (true) or 0 (false).

When you specify true, simBySolution performs sampling such that all primary and antithetic
paths are simulated and stored in successive matching pairs:

•
Odd NTrials (1,3,5,...) correspond to the primary Gaussian paths.

15
Functions

15-366