Xt = P(t, Xt)

The interpolate function runs processing functions at each interpolation time. They must accept
the current interpolation time t, and the current state vector Xt, and return a state vector that may be
an adjustment to the input state.

If you specify more than one processing function, interpolate invokes the functions in the order in
which they appear in the cell array. You can use this argument to specify boundary conditions,
prevent negative prices, accumulate statistics, plot graphs, and so on.

Data Types: cell | function

Output Arguments

XT — Interpolated state variables
array

Interpolated state variables, returned as a NTimes-by-NVars-by-NTrials time series array.

For a given trial, each row of this array is the transpose of the interpolated state vector Xt at time t.
XT is the interpolated time series formed by interpolating into the input Paths time series array.

T — Interpolation times associated with the output time series XT
column vector

Interpolation times associated with the output time series XT, returned as a NTimes-by-1 column
vector.

If the input interpolation time vector Times contains no missing observations (NaNs), the output of T
is the same time vector as Times, but with the NaNs removed. This reduces the length of T and the
number of rows of XT.

Algorithms

This function performs a Brownian interpolation into a user-specified time series array, based on a
piecewise-constant Euler sampling approach.

Consider a vector-valued SDE of the form:

dXt = F(t, Xt)dt + G(t, Xt)dWt

where:

•
X is an NVars-by-1 state vector.

•
F is an NVars-by-1 drift-rate vector-valued function.

•
G is an NVars-by-NBrowns diffusion-rate matrix-valued function.

•
W is an NBrowns-by-1 Brownian motion vector.

Given a user-specified time series array associated with this equation, this function performs a
Brownian (stochastic) interpolation by sampling from a conditional Gaussian distribution. This
sampling technique is sometimes called a Brownian bridge.

15
Functions

15-154