Forecasting Corporate Default Rates

This example shows how to build a forecasting model for corporate default rates.

Risk parameters are dynamic in nature, and understanding how these parameters change in time is a
fundamental task for risk management.

In the first part of this example, you work with historical credit migrations data to construct some
time series of interest, and to visualize default rates dynamics. In the second part of this example, you
use some of the series constructed in the first part, and some additional data, to fit a forecasting
model for corporate default rates, and to show some backtesting and stress testing concepts. A linear
regression model for corporate default rates is presented, but the tools and concepts described can
be used with other forecasting methodologies. The appendix at the end references the handling of
models for full transition matrices.

If you are interested in forecasting, backtesting, and stress testing can go directly to the second part
of this example. The first part of this example is more relevant if you who work with credit migration
data.

Part I: Working with Credit Migrations Data

You can work with historical transition probabilities for corporate issuers (variable TransMat). This
is yearly data for the period 1981-2005, from [10 on page 8-43]. The data includes, for each year, the
number of issuers per rating at the beginning of the year (variable nIssuers), and the number of
new issuers per rating per year (variable nNewIssuers). There is also a corporate profits forecast,
from [9 on page 8-43], and a corporate spread, from [4 on page 8-43] (variables CPF and SPR). A
variable indicating recession years (Recession), consistent with recession dates from [7 on page 8-
43], is used mainly for visualizations.

Example_LoadData

Getting Default Rates for Different Ratings Categories

Start by performing some aggregations to get corporate default rates for Investment Grade (IG) and
Speculative Grade (SG) issuers, and the overall corporate default rate.

Aggregation and segmentation are relative terms. IG is an aggregate with respect to credit ratings,
but a segment from the perspective of the overall corporate portfolio. Other segments are of interest
in practice, for example, economic sectors, industries, or geographic regions. The data in this
example, however, is aggregated by credit ratings, so further segmentation is not possible.
Nonetheless, the tools and workflow discussed here can be useful to work with other segment-
specific models.

Use functionality in Financial Toolbox™, specifically, the functions transprobgrouptotals and
transprobbytotals, to perform the aggregation. These functions take as inputs structures with
credit migration information in a particular format.

Set up the inputs and visualize them to understand their information and format.

% Pre-allocate the struct array
totalsByRtg(nYears,1) = struct('totalsVec',[],'totalsMat',[], ...
   'algorithm','cohort');
for t = 1:nYears
   % Number of issuers per rating at the beginning of the year

Forecasting Corporate Default Rates

8-23