Before R2021a, use commas to separate each name and value, and enclose Name in quotes.

Example: [exposures,exposurecpty] =
creditexposures(values,counterparties,'NettingID','10','ExposureType','Additi
ve')

NettingID — Netting set IDs indicate which netting set each contract belongs
vector | cell array

Netting set IDs to indicate to which netting set each contract in values belongs, specified by a
NumContracts-element vector of netting set IDs. NettingID can be a vector of numeric IDs or else
a cell array of character vector identifiers. The creditexposures function uses counterparties
and NettingID to define each unique netting set (all contracts in a netting set must be with the
same counterparty). By default, each counterparty has a single netting set which covers all of their
contracts. A value of NaN (or '' in a cell array) indicates that a contract is not included in any netting
set. NettingID is case insensitive and leading or trailing white spaces are removed.

Data Types: double | cell

ExposureType — Calculation method for exposures
'Counterparty' (default) | character vector with value of 'Counterparty' or 'Additive'

Calculation method for exposures, specified with values:

•
'Counterparty' — Compute exposures per counterparty.

•
'Additive' — Compute additive exposures at the contract level. Exposures are computed per
contract and sum to the total counterparty exposure.

Data Types: char

CollateralTable — Table containing information on collateral agreements of
counterparties
MATLAB table

Table containing information on collateral agreements of counterparties, specified as a MATLAB
table. The table consists of one entry (row) per collateralized counterparty and must have the
following variables (columns):

•
'Counterparty' — Counterparty name or ID. The Counterparty name or ID should match the
parameter 'Counterparty' for the ExposureType argument.

•
'PeriodOfRisk' — Margin period of risk in days. The number of days from a margin call until
the posted collateral is available from the counterparty.

•
'Threshold' — Collateral threshold. When counterparty exposures exceed this amount, the
counterparty must post collateral.

•
'MinimumTransfer' — Minimum transfer amount. The minimum amount over/under the
threshold required to trigger transfer of collateral.

Note When computing collateralized exposures, both the CollateralTable parameter and the
Dates parameter must be specified.

Data Types: table

15
Functions

15-656