Simulated trials (sample paths) of NPeriods observations each, specified as the comma-separated
pair consisting of 'NTrials' and a positive scalar integer.

Data Types: double

DeltaTime — Positive time increments between observations
1 (default) | scalar | column vector

Positive time increments between observations, specified as the comma-separated pair consisting of
'DeltaTime' and a scalar or a NPeriods-by-1 column vector.

DeltaTime represents the familiar dt found in stochastic differential equations, and determines the
times at which the simulated paths of the output state variables are reported.

Data Types: double

NSteps — Number of intermediate time steps within each time increment
1 (indicating no intermediate evaluation) (default) | positive scalar integer

Number of intermediate time steps within each time increment dt (specified as DeltaTime),
specified as the comma-separated pair consisting of 'NSteps' and a positive scalar integer.

The simByEuler function partitions each time increment dt into NSteps subintervals of length dt/
NSteps, and refines the simulation by evaluating the simulated state vector at NSteps − 1
intermediate points. Although simByEuler does not report the output state vector at these
intermediate points, the refinement improves accuracy by allowing the simulation to more closely
approximate the underlying continuous-time process.

Data Types: double

Antithetic — Flag to use antithetic sampling to generate Gaussian random variates
false (no antithetic sampling) (default) | logical with values true or false

Flag to use antithetic sampling to generate the Gaussian random variates that drive the Brownian
motion vector (Wiener processes), specified as the comma-separated pair consisting of
'Antithetic' and a scalar numeric or logical 1 (true) or 0 (false).

When you specify true, simByEuler performs sampling such that all primary and antithetic paths
are simulated and stored in successive matching pairs:

•
Odd trials (1,3,5,...) correspond to the primary Gaussian paths.

•
Even trials (2,4,6,...) are the matching antithetic paths of each pair derived by negating the
Gaussian draws of the corresponding primary (odd) trial.

Note If you specify an input noise process (see Z), simByEuler ignores the value of Antithetic.

Data Types: logical

Z — Direct specification of the dependent random noise process for generating Brownian
motion vector
generates correlated Gaussian variates based on the Correlation member of the SDE object
(default) | function | three-dimensional array of dependent random variates

Direct specification of the dependent random noise process for generating the Brownian motion
vector (Wiener process) that drives the simulation, specified as the comma-separated pair consisting

15
Functions

15-322