1 is the vector of ones (n vector).

lS is the lower-bound budget constraint (scalar).

uS is the upper-bound budget constraint (scalar).

n is the number of assets in the universe.

Portfolio, PortfolioCVaR, and PortfolioMAD object properties to specify budget constraints
are:

•
LowerBudget for lS
•
UpperBudget for uS
•
NumAssets for n

The default is to ignore this constraint.

The default portfolio optimization problem (see “Default Portfolio Problem” on page 4-17) has lS = uS
= 1, which means that the portfolio weights sum to 1. If the portfolio optimization problem includes
possible movements in and out of cash, the budget constraint specifies how far portfolios can go into
cash. For example, if lS = 0 and uS = 1, then the portfolio can have 0–100% invested in cash. If cash is
to be a portfolio choice, set RiskFreeRate (r0) to a suitable value (see “Return Proxy” on page 4-5
and “Working with a Riskless Asset” on page 4-52).

Conditional Budget Constraints

Conditional budget constraints is a logical constraint that bounds the maximum amount of the
portfolio that can be invested in assets exceeding a given threshold. This constraint supports the
“Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities” on page 15-1452 (UCITS)
directive. Use setConditionalBudget to set conditional budget constraints. To mathematically
formulate this type of constraints, a binary variable wi is needed. If wi = 0 the asset is below the
specified threshold, otherwise the asset is above that threshold which is represented as

wi = 0
xi ≤αi
∑
i
xiwi ≤γ

where:

x is an n vector representing the portfolio.

ɑ is a scalar or n representing the threshold above which assets are accounted for in the conditional
budget (scalar or n vector).

γ is a scalar representing the maximum amount of the portfolio that can be invested in assets
exceeding ɑ.

Group Constraints

Group constraints are specialized linear constraints that enforce “membership” among groups of
assets. Use setGroups to set group constraints. The constraints take the form

lG ≤Gx ≤uG

4
Mean-Variance Portfolio Optimization Tools

4-12