About Credit Scorecards

In this section...

“What Is a Credit Scorecard?” on page 8-49

“Credit Scorecard Development Process” on page 8-50

What Is a Credit Scorecard?

Credit scoring is one of the most widely used credit risk analysis tools. The goal of credit scoring is
ranking borrowers by their credit worthiness. In the context of retail credit (credit cards, mortgages,
car loans, and so on), credit scoring is performed using a credit scorecard. Credit scorecards
represent different characteristics of a customer (age, residential status, time at current address,
time at current job, and so on) translated into points and the total number of points becomes the
credit score. The credit worthiness of customers is summarized by their credit score; high scores
usually correspond to low-risk customers, and conversely. Scores are also used for corporate credit
analysis of small and medium enterprises, and, large corporations.

A credit scorecard is a lookup table that maps specific characteristics of a borrower into points. The
total number of points becomes the credit score. Credit scorecards are a widely used type of credit
scoring model. As such, the goal of a credit scorecard is to distinguish between customers who repay
their loans (“good” customers), and customers who will not (“bad” customers). Like other credit
scoring models, credit scorecards quantify the risk that a borrower will not repay a loan in the form
of a score and a probability of default.

For example, a credit scorecard can give individual borrowers points for their age and income
according to the following table. Other characteristics such as residential status, employment status,
might also be included, although, for brevity, they are not shown in this table.

Using the credit scorecard in this example, a particular customer who is 31 and has an income of
$52,000 a year, is placed into the second age group (26–40) and receives 25 points for their age, and
similarly, receives 28 points for their income. Other characteristics (not shown here) might contribute
additional points to their score. The total score is the sum of all points, which in this example is

About Credit Scorecards

8-49