simulation date, each column a different counterparty, and each “page” is a different scenario from a
Monte-Carlo simulation.

Data Types: double

Name-Value Pair Arguments

Specify optional pairs of arguments as Name1=Value1,...,NameN=ValueN, where Name is the
argument name and Value is the corresponding value. Name-value arguments must appear after
other arguments, but the order of the pairs does not matter.

Before R2021a, use commas to separate each name and value, and enclose Name in quotes.

Example: profilestructs =
exposureprofiles(dates,exposures,'ProfileSpec','PFE','PFEProbabilityLevel',.9
)

ProfileSpec — Exposure profiles
All (generate all profiles) (default) | character vector with possible values EE, PFE, MPE, EffEE, EPE,
EffEPE, All | cell array of character vectors with possible values EE, PFE, MPE, EffEE, EPE, EffEPE

Exposure profiles, specified as a character vector or cell array of character vectors with the following
possible values:

•
EE — Expected Exposure. The mean of the distribution of exposures at each date. A [NumDates-
by-1] vector.

•
PFE — Potential Future Exposure. A high percentile (default 95%) of the distribution of possible
exposures at each date. This is sometimes referred to as “Peak Exposure.” A [NumDates-by-1]
vector.

•
MPFE — Maximum Potential Future Exposure. The maximum potential future exposure (PFE) over
all dates

•
EffEE — Effective Expected Exposure. The maximum expected exposure (at a specific date) that
occurs at that date or any prior date. This is the expected exposure, but constrained to be
nondecreasing over time. A [NumDates-by-1] vector.

•
EPE — Expected Positive Exposure. The weighted average over time of expected exposures. A
scalar.

•
EffEPE — Effective Expected Positive Exposure. The weighted average over time of the effective
expected exposure (EffEE). A scalar.

•
All — Generate all the previous profiles.

Note Exposure profiles are computed on a per-counterparty basis.

Data Types: char | cell

PFEProbabilityLevel — Level for potential future exposure (PFE) and maximum potential
future exposure (MPFE)
.95 (the 95th percentile) (default) | scalar with value [0..1]

Level for potential future exposure (PFE) and maximum potential future exposure (MPFE), specified
as a scalar with value [0..1].

exposureprofiles

15-661