Theta

Theta is the rate of change in the price of a derivative security relative to time. Theta is usually small
or negative since the value of an option tends to drop as it approaches maturity.

Vega

Vega is the rate of change in the price of a derivative security relative to the volatility of the
underlying security. When vega is large the security is sensitive to small changes in volatility. For
example, options traders often must decide whether to buy an option to hedge against vega or
gamma. The hedge selected usually depends upon how frequently one rebalances a hedge position
and also upon the standard deviation of the price of the underlying asset (the volatility). If the
standard deviation is changing rapidly, balancing against vega is preferable.

Implied Volatility

The implied volatility of an option is the standard deviation that makes an option price equal to the
market price. It helps determine a market estimate for the future volatility of a stock and provides the
input volatility (when needed) to the other Black-Scholes functions.

Analysis Models

Toolbox functions for analyzing equity derivatives use the Black-Scholes model for European options
and the binomial model for American options. The Black-Scholes model makes several assumptions
about the underlying securities and their behavior. The Black-Scholes model was the first complete
mathematical model for pricing options, developed by Fischer Black and Myron Scholes. It examines
market price, strike price, volatility, time to expiration, and interest rates. It is limited to only certain
kinds of options.

The binomial model, on the other hand, makes far fewer assumptions about the processes underlying
an option. A binomial model is a method of pricing options or other equity derivatives in which the
probability over time of each possible price follows a binomial distribution. The basic assumption is
that prices can move to only two values (one higher and one lower) over any short time period. For
further explanation, see Options, Futures, and Other Derivatives by John Hull in “Bibliography” on
page A-2.

Black-Scholes Model

This example shows how to compute the call and put prices of a European option and its delta,
gamma, lambda, and implied volatility.

Using the Black-Scholes model entails several assumptions:

•
The prices of the underlying asset follow an Ito process. (See “Derivatives Pricing and Yields” on
page A-3, page 222.)

•
The option can be exercised only on its expiration date (European option).

•
Short selling is permitted.

•
There are no transaction costs.

•
All securities are divisible.

•
There is no riskless arbitrage (where arbitrage is the purchase of securities on one market for
immediate resale on another market to profit from a price or currency discrepancy).

2
Performing Common Financial Tasks

2-40