More About

Credit Default Swap

A Credit Default Swap (CDS) is a financial derivative contract that allows an investor to "swap" or
transfer the credit risk of a borrower (usually a corporation or government) to another party.

The parties involved are:

•
Protection Buyer — The party that purchases the CDS to protect against the risk of default. They
pay periodic premiums (known as the CDS spread) to the protection seller.

•
Protection Seller — The party that provides the credit protection and receives the premiums
from the protection buyer. In the event of a default, the protection seller is obligated to
compensate the protection buyer.

CDS Price

The price or mark-to-market (MtM) value of an existing CDS contract.

The CDS price is computed using the following formula:

CDS price = Notional * (Current Spread - Contract Spread) * RPV01

Current Spread is the current breakeven spread for a similar contract, according to current
market conditions. RPV01 is the 'risky present value of a basis point,' the present value of the
premium payments, considering the default probability. This formula assumes a long position, and the
right side is multiplied by -1 for short positions.

Algorithms

The premium leg is computed as the product of a spread S and the risky present value of a basis point
(RPV01). The RPV01 is given by:

RPV01 = ∑
j = 1

N
Z(t j)Δ(t j −1, t j, B)Q(t j)

when no accrued premiums are paid upon default, and it can be approximated by

RPV01 ≈1
2 ∑
j = 1

N
Z(t j)Δ(t j −1, t j, B)(Q(t j −1) + Q(t j))

when accrued premiums are paid upon default. Here, t0 = 0 is the valuation date, and t1,...,tn = T are
the premium payment dates over the life of the contract,T is the maturity of the contract, Z(t) is the
discount factor for a payment received at time t, and Δ(tj-1, tj, B) is a day count between dates tj-1 and
tj corresponding to a basis B.

The protection leg of a CDS contract is given by the following formula:

ProtectionLeg =∫0

T
Z(τ)(1 −R)dPD(τ)

≈(1 −R) ∑
i = 1

M
Z(τi)(PD(τi) −PD(τi −1))

cdsprice

15-631