Input Arguments

Return — Expected (mean) instantaneous rate of return of GBM price process
scalar numeric | function_handle

Expected (mean) instantaneous of GBM price process, specified as an array, a numeric scalar, or a
deterministic function of time as a function handle accepting time t or both time t and state X(t).

Data Types: double | function_handle

Volatility — Instantaneous volatility of BSS stochastic volatility process
scalar numeric | function_handle

Instantaneous volatility of the BSS stochastic volatility process, specified as an array, a numeric
scalar, or a deterministic function of time as a function handle accepting time t. Volatility is also
know as "volatility of volatility" or "volatility of variance" and is usually a nonnegative value.

Data Types: double | function_handle

Alpha — Kernel function parameter representing roughness index
scalar numeric

Kernel function parameter representing the roughness index, specified as numeric scalar. The value
of Alpha should be in (-0.5, 0.5). The BSS process behaves locally like a fractional Brownian
motion (fBm) with the Hurst index H = Alpha + 0.5.

Data Types: double

Beta — Kernel function parameter to control asymptotic memory properties
scalar numeric

Kernel function parameter to control asymptotic memory properties, specified as numeric scalar.

When you specify Beta > 0 for a gamma kernel specified using KernelType, if Alpha is in (-0.5, 0),
the gamma kernel generates processes with short memory both for short and long time horizons.

When you specifyBeta > 0.5 for power-law kernel specified using KernelType, if you choose
Alpha in (-0.5, 0) and Beta in (0.5, 1), the power-law kernel generates processes with short-
memory property for small time scales and with long range memory for long time horizons.

Data Types: double

Name-Value Pair Arguments

Specify optional pairs of arguments as Name1=Value1,...,NameN=ValueN, where Name is the
argument name and Value is the corresponding value. Name-value arguments must appear after
other arguments, but the order of the pairs does not matter.

Example: rvmObj = rvm(Return,Volatility,Alpha,Beta,KernelType="gamma")

KernelType — Type of kernel function assembling BSS process
"gamma" (default) | string with value "gamma" or "power-law" | character vector with value
'gamma' or 'power-law'

Type of kernel function (g(x)) assembling the kernel process, specified as a string or character vector
for one of the following:

rvm

15-213