Creation

Syntax

DiffusionRate = diffusion(Alpha,Sigma)

Description

DiffusionRate = diffusion(Alpha,Sigma) creates default DiffusionRate model
component.

Specify required input parameters A and B as one of the following types:

•
A MATLAB array. Specifying an array indicates a static (non-time-varying) parametric
specification. This array fully captures all implementation details, which are clearly associated
with a parametric form.

•
A MATLAB function. Specifying a function provides indirect support for virtually any static,
dynamic, linear, or nonlinear model. This parameter is supported via an interface, because all
implementation details are hidden and fully encapsulated by the function.

Note You can specify combinations of array and function input parameters as needed.

Moreover, a parameter is identified as a deterministic function of time if the function accepts a scalar
time t as its only input argument. Otherwise, a parameter is assumed to be a function of time t and
state X(t) and is invoked with both input arguments.

The diffusion object that you create encapsulates the composite drift-rate specification and returns
the following displayed parameters:

•
Rate — The diffusion-rate function, G. Rate is the diffusion-rate calculation engine. It accepts the
current time t and an NVars-by-1 state vector Xt as inputs, and returns an NVars-by-1 diffusion-
rate vector.

•
Alpha — Access function for the input argument Alpha.

•
Sigma — Access function for the input argument Sigma.

Input Arguments

Alpha — Return represents the parameter D
array or deterministic function of time

Alpha represents the parameter D, specified as an array or deterministic function of time.

If you specify Alpha as an array, it represents an NVars-by-1 column vector of exponents.

As a deterministic function of time, when Alpha is called with a real-valued scalar time t as its only
input, Alpha must produce an NVars-by-1 matrix.

If you specify it as a function of time and state, Alpha must return an NVars-by-1 column vector of
exponents when invoked with two inputs:

•
A real-valued scalar observation time t.

diffusion

15-91