Algorithms

This function simulates any vector-valued SDE of the form

dXt = F(t, Xt)dt + G(t, Xt)dWt

where:

•
X is an NVars-by-1 state vector of process variables (for example, short rates or equity prices) to
simulate.

•
W is an NBrowns-by-1 Brownian motion vector.

•
F is an NVars-by-1 vector-valued drift-rate function.

•
G is an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix-valued diffusion-rate function.

simByEuler simulates NTrials sample paths of NVars correlated state variables driven by
NBrowns Brownian motion sources of risk over NPeriods consecutive observation periods, using the
Euler approach to approximate continuous-time stochastic processes.

•
This simulation engine provides a discrete-time approximation of the underlying generalized
continuous-time process. The simulation is derived directly from the stochastic differential
equation of motion. Thus, the discrete-time process approaches the true continuous-time process
only as DeltaTime approaches zero.

•
The input argument Z allows you to directly specify the noise-generation process. This process
takes precedence over the Correlation parameter of the sde object and the value of the
Antithetic input flag. If you do not specify a value for Z, simByEuler generates correlated
Gaussian variates, with or without antithetic sampling as requested.

•
The end-of-period Processes argument allows you to terminate a given trial early. At the end of
each time step, simByEuler tests the state vector Xt for an all-NaN condition. Thus, to signal an
early termination of a given trial, all elements of the state vector Xt must be NaN. This test enables
a user-defined Processes function to signal early termination of a trial, and offers significant
performance benefits in some situations (for example, pricing down-and-out barrier options).

Version History
Introduced in R2023b

R2024b: Support for roughheston object

When using simByEuler, you can use a roughheston object.

R2024a: Support for roughbergomi object

When using simByEuler, you can use a roughbergomi object.

References

[1] Barndorff-Nielsen, O.E. and Schmiegel, J. “Brownian Semistationary Processes and Volatility/
Intermittency.” Advanced Financial Modeling, Walter de Gruyter, Germany, 2009, pp. 1–26.

15
Functions

15-336