The diffusion-rate specification supports the simulation of sample paths of NVars state variables
driven by NBrowns Brownian motion sources of risk over NPeriods consecutive observation periods
for approximating continuous-time stochastic processes.

Use the diffusion function to create diffusion objects of the form

G(t, Xt) = D(t, Xt
α(t))V(t)

Here:

•
D is an NVars-by-NVars diagonal matrix-valued function.

•
Each diagonal element of D is the corresponding element of the state vector raised to the
corresponding element of an exponent Alpha, which is an NVars-by-1 vector-valued function.

•
V is an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix-valued volatility rate function Sigma.

•
Alpha and Sigma are also accessible using the (t, Xt) interface.

The displayed parameters for a diffusion object are:

•
Rate — Diffusion-rate function, G(t,Xt)

•
Alpha — State vector exponent, which determines the format of D(t,Xt) of G(t,Xt)

•
Sigma — Volatility rate, V(t,Xt), of G(t,Xt)

Alpha and Sigma enable you to query the original inputs. (The combined effect of the individual
Alpha and Sigma parameters is fully encapsulated by the function stored in Rate.) The Rate
functions are the calculation engines for the drift and diffusion objects, and are the only
parameters required for simulation.

Note You can express drift and diffusion objects in the most general form to emphasize the
functional (t, Xt) interface. However, you can specify the components A and B as functions that adhere
to the common (t, Xt) interface, or as MATLAB arrays of appropriate dimension.

Example: G = diffusion(1, 0.3) % Diffusion-rate function G(t,X)

Data Types: object

Simulation — User-defined simulation function or SDE simulation method
simulation by Euler approximation (simByEuler) (default) | function | SDE simulation method

User-defined simulation function or SDE simulation method, specified as a function or SDE simulation
method.

Data Types: function_handle

Object Functions
simByEuler
Simulate Bates sample paths by Euler approximation
simByQuadExp
Simulate Bates, Heston, and CIR sample paths by quadratic-exponential
discretization scheme
simulate
Simulate multivariate stochastic differential equations (SDEs) for SDE, BM, GBM,
CEV, CIR, HWV, Heston, SDEDDO, SDELD, SDEMRD, Merton, or Bates models
simByTransition
Simulate Bates sample paths with transition density

bates

15-197