More About

Antithetic Sampling

Simulation methods allow you to specify a popular variance reduction technique called antithetic
sampling.

This technique attempts to replace one sequence of random observations with another of the same
expected value, but smaller variance. In a typical Monte Carlo simulation, each sample path is
independent and represents an independent trial. However, antithetic sampling generates sample
paths in pairs. The first path of the pair is referred to as the primary path, and the second as the
antithetic path. Any given pair is independent of any other pair, but the two paths within each pair
are highly correlated. Antithetic sampling literature often recommends averaging the discounted
payoffs of each pair, effectively halving the number of Monte Carlo trials.

This technique attempts to reduce variance by inducing negative dependence between paired input
samples, ideally resulting in negative dependence between paired output samples. The greater the
extent of negative dependence, the more effective antithetic sampling is.

Algorithms

This function simulates any vector-valued SDE of the form

dXt = F(t, Xt)dt + G(t, Xt)dWt

where:

•
X is an NVars-by-1 state vector of process variables (for example, short rates or equity prices) to
simulate.

•
W is an NBrowns-by-1 Brownian motion vector.

•
F is an NVars-by-1 vector-valued drift-rate function.

•
G is an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix-valued diffusion-rate function.

simByHybrid simulates NTrials sample paths of NVars correlated state variables driven by
NBrowns Brownian motion sources of risk over NPeriods consecutive observation periods, using the
hybrid method to approximate continuous-time stochastic processes.

•
This simulation engine provides a discrete-time approximation of the underlying generalized
continuous-time process. The simulation is derived directly from the stochastic differential
equation of motion. Thus, the discrete-time process approaches the true continuous-time process
only as DeltaTime approaches zero.

•
The input argument Z allows you to directly specify the noise-generation process. This process
takes precedence over the Correlation parameter of the rvm or roughbergomi object and the
value of the Antithetic input flag and the QuasiMonteCarlo argument. If you do not specify a
value for Z, simByHybrid generates correlated Gaussian variates, with or without antithetic
sampling as requested.

•
The end-of-period Processes argument allows you to terminate a given trial early. At the end of
each time step, simByHybrid tests the state vector Xt for an all-NaN condition. Thus, to signal an
early termination of a given trial, all elements of the state vector Xt must be NaN. This test enables
a user-defined Processes function to signal early termination of a trial, and offers significant
performance benefits in some situations (for example, pricing down-and-out barrier options).

simByHybrid

15-345