Input Arguments

Return — Expected (mean) instantaneous rate of return of GBM price process
scalar numeric | function_handle

Expected (mean) instantaneous rate of return of the GBM price process, specified as an array, a
numeric scalar, or a deterministic function of time as a function handle accepting time t or both time t
and state X(t).

Data Types: double | function_handle

Alpha — Kernel function parameter representing roughness index
scalar numeric

Kernel function parameter representing the roughness index, specified as numeric scalar. The value
of Alpha should be in (-0.5, 0.5). The BSS process behaves locally like a fractional Brownian
motion (fBm) with the Hurst index H = Alpha + 0.5.

Data Types: double

Xi — Forward variance curve
scalar numeric

Forward variance curve specified as an array, a numeric scalar, or a deterministic function of time, Xi
must return a scalar when called with a real-valued scalar time t as its only input. Although this
function enforces no restrictions, Xi is usually non-negative.

Data Types: double

Eta — Volterra fBm parameter
scalar numeric > 0

Volterra fBm parameter, specified as numeric scalar > 0.

Unlike the standard Brownian motion used in traditional models, the fractional Brownian motion
(fBm) allows for long memory and roughness in the volatility dynamics. This roughness captures the
empirical observation that volatility tends to exhibit slow decay and high-frequency irregularities.

Data Types: double

Name-Value Arguments

Specify optional pairs of arguments as Name1=Value1,...,NameN=ValueN, where Name is the
argument name and Value is the corresponding value. Name-value arguments must appear after
other arguments, but the order of the pairs does not matter.

Example: RoughBergomi = roughbergomi(Return,Alpha,Xi,Eta,Correlation=0.02)

StartTime — Starting time of first observation, applied to all state variables
0 (default) | scalar

Starting time of the first observation, applied to all state variables, specified as a scalar.

Data Types: double

StartState — Initial values of state variables on all trials
1 (default) | scalar, column vector, or matrix

15
Functions

15-220