It can be shown that there is no strong statistical evidence to conclude that the linear regression
assumptions are violated. It is apparent that default rates are not normally distributed. The model,
however, does not make that assumption. The only normality assumption in the model is that, given
the predictors values, the error between the predicted and the observed default rates is normally
distributed. By looking at the in-sample fit, this does not seem unreasonable. The magnitude of the
errors certainly seems independent of whether the default rates are high or low. Year 2001 has a high
default rate and a high error, but years 1991 or 2002 also have high rates and yet very small errors.
Likewise, low default rate years like 1996 and 1997 show considerable errors, but years 2004 or 2005
have similarly low rates and tiny errors.

A thorough statistical analysis of the model is out of scope here, but there are several detailed
examples in Statistics and Machine Learning Toolbox™ and Econometrics Toolbox™.

Backtesting

To evaluate how this model performs out-of-sample, you can set up a backtesting exercise. Starting at
the end of 1995, fit the linear regression model with the information available up to that date, and
compare the model prediction to the actual default rate observed the following year. Repeat the same
procedure for all subsequent years until the end of the sample.

For backtesting, relative performance of a model, when compared to alternatives, is easier to assess
than the performance of a model in isolation. This example includes two alternatives to determine
next year's default rate, both likely candidates in practice. One is the TTC default rate, estimated with
data from the beginning of the sample to the current year, a very stable default rate estimate. The
other is the PIT rate, estimated using data from the most recent year only, much more sensitive to
recent events.

XBT = [AGE,CPF,SPR];
yBT = DefRate;

iYear0 = find(Years==1984); % Index of first year in sample, 1984

8
Credit Risk Analysis

8-30