rvm

Rough volatility model (RVM)

Description

Creates and displays an rvm object.

RVM (rough volatility model) objects are bivariate composite models, composed of two coupled and
dissimilar univariate models that approximate continuous-time, rough stochastic volatility processes.
The first univariate model is a geometric Brownian motion (GBM) model with a stochastic volatility
function. This model usually corresponds to a price process whose variance rate is governed by the
second univariate model. The second univariate model includes a Brownian semistationary process
(BSS) without drift that describes the evolution of the variance rate that models the log volatility of
the coupled GBM price process.

Creation

Syntax

RVM = rvm(Return,Volatility,Alpha,Beta)
RVM = rvm( ___ ,Name=Value)

Description

RVM = rvm(Return,Volatility,Alpha,Beta) creates a default RVM object with “Properties” on
page 15-215 for these required arguments.

Specify the required input parameters as one of the following types:

•
A MATLAB array. Specifying an array indicates a static (non-time-varying) parametric
specification. This array fully captures all implementation details, which are clearly associated
with a parametric form.

•
A MATLAB function. Specifying a function provides indirect support for virtually any static,
dynamic, linear, or nonlinear model. This parameter is supported via an interface because all
implementation details are hidden and fully encapsulated by the function.

Note You can specify combinations of array and function input parameters as needed.

Moreover, a parameter is identified as a deterministic function of time if the function accepts a scalar
time t as its only input argument. Otherwise, a parameter is assumed to be a function of time t and
state X(t) and is invoked with both input arguments.

RVM = rvm( ___ ,Name=Value) creates an RVM object with additional options specified by one or
more name-value arguments to set the “Properties” on page 15-215.

15
Functions

15-212