Estimation of the CAPM

The standard CAPM model is a linear model with additional parameters for each asset to characterize
residual errors. For each of n assets with m samples of observed asset returns Rk,i, market returns
Mk, and riskless asset returns Ck, the estimation model has the form

Rk, i = αi + Ck + βi(Mk −Ck) + Vk, i

for samples k = 1, ..., m and assets i = 1, ..., n, where αi is a parameter that specifies the
nonsystematic return of an asset, βi is the asset beta, and Vk,i is the residual error for each asset with
associated random variable Vi.

The collection of parameters α1, ..., αn are called asset alphas. The strict form of the CAPM specifies
that alphas must be zero and that deviations from zero are the result of temporary disequilibria. In
practice, however, assets may have nonzero alphas, where much of active investment management is
devoted to the search for assets with exploitable nonzero alphas.

To allow for the possibility of nonzero alphas, the estimation model generally seeks to estimate alphas
and to perform tests to determine if the alphas are statistically equal to zero.

The residual errors Vi are assumed to have moments

E Vi = 0

and

E ViV j = Si j

for assets i,j = 1, ..., n, where the parameters S11, ..., Snn are called residual or nonsystematic
variances/covariances.

The square root of the residual variance of each asset, for example, sqrt(Sii) for i = 1, ..., n, is said to
be the residual or nonsystematic risk of the asset since it characterizes the residual variation in asset
prices that are not explained by variations in market prices.

Estimation with Missing Data

Although betas can be estimated for companies with sufficiently long histories of asset returns, it is
difficult to estimate betas for recent IPOs. However, if a collection of sufficiently observable
companies exists that can be expected to have some degree of correlation with the new company's
stock price movements, that is, companies within the same industry as the new company, it is possible
to obtain imputed estimates for new company betas with the missing-data regression routines.

Estimation of Some Technology Stock Betas

This example shows how to use the missing-data regression routines, estimate betas for 12
technology stocks, where a single stock (GOOG) is an IPO.

Load dates, total returns, and ticker symbols for the 12 stocks from the MAT-file CAPMuniverse.

load CAPMuniverse
whos Assets Data Dates

Valuation with Missing Data

9-27