where:

•
A is an NVars-by-1 vector-valued function accessible using the (t, Xt) interface.

•
B is an NVars-by-NVars matrix-valued function accessible using the (t, Xt) interface.

The displayed parameters for a drift object are:

•
Rate: The drift-rate function, F(t,Xt)

•
A: The intercept term, A(t,Xt), of F(t,Xt)

•
B: The first order term, B(t,Xt), of F(t,Xt)

A and B enable you to query the original inputs. The function stored in Rate fully encapsulates the
combined effect of A and B.

When specified as MATLAB double arrays, the inputs A and B are clearly associated with a linear drift
rate parametric form. However, specifying either A or B as a function allows you to customize
virtually any drift rate specification.

Note You can express drift and diffusion classes in the most general form to emphasize the
functional (t, Xt) interface. However, you can specify the components A and B as functions that adhere
to the common (t, Xt) interface, or as MATLAB arrays of appropriate dimension.

Example: F = drift(0, 0.1) % Drift rate function F(t,X)

Data Types: struct | double

Diffusion — Diffusion rate component of continuous-time stochastic differential equations
(SDEs)
value stored from diffusion-rate function (default) | diffusion object or functions accessible by (t, Xt)

This property is read-only.

Diffusion rate component of continuous-time stochastic differential equations (SDEs), specified as a
drift object or function accessible by (t, Xt.

The diffusion rate specification supports the simulation of sample paths of NVars state variables
driven by NBrowns Brownian motion sources of risk over NPeriods consecutive observation periods,
approximating continuous-time stochastic processes.

The diffusion class allows you to create diffusion-rate objects using diffusion:

G(t, Xt) = D(t, Xt
α(t))V(t)

where:

•
D is an NVars-by-NVars diagonal matrix-valued function.

•
Each diagonal element of D is the corresponding element of the state vector raised to the
corresponding element of an exponent Alpha, which is an NVars-by-1 vector-valued function.

•
V is an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix-valued volatility rate function Sigma.

•
Alpha and Sigma are also accessible using the (t, Xt) interface.

The displayed parameters for a diffusion object are:

sdeld

15-177