If you set up an array of Portfolio objects, you can access properties of a particular Portfolio
object in the array by indexing so that you can set the lower and upper bounds lb and ub for the
(i,j,k) element of a 3-D array of Portfolio objects with

p(i,j,k) = setBounds(p(i,j,k),lb, ub);

and, once set, you can access these bounds with

[lb, ub] = getBounds(p(i,j,k));

Portfolio object functions work on only one Portfolio object at a time.

Subclassing Portfolio Objects

You can subclass the Portfolio object to override existing functions or to add new properties or
functions. To do so, create a derived class from the Portfolio class. This gives you all the properties
and functions of the Portfolio class along with any new features that you choose to add to your
subclassed object. The Portfolio class is derived from an abstract class called
AbstractPortfolio. Because of this, you can also create a derived class from
AbstractPortfolio that implements an entirely different form of portfolio optimization using
properties and functions of the AbstractPortfolio class.

Conventions for Representation of Data

The portfolio optimization tools follow these conventions regarding the representation of different
quantities associated with portfolio optimization:

•
Asset returns or prices are in matrix form with samples for a given asset going down the rows and
assets going across the columns. In the case of prices, the earliest dates must be at the top of the
matrix, with increasing dates going down.

•
The mean and covariance of asset returns are stored in a vector and a matrix and the tools have
no requirement that the mean must be either a column or row vector.

•
Portfolios are in vector or matrix form with weights for a given portfolio going down the rows and
distinct portfolios going across the columns.

•
Constraints on portfolios are formed in such a way that a portfolio is a column vector.

•
Portfolio risks and returns are either scalars or column vectors (for multiple portfolio risks and
returns).

See Also
Portfolio

Related Examples

•
“Creating the Portfolio Object” on page 4-25

•
“Working with Portfolio Constraints Using Defaults” on page 4-58

•
“Asset Allocation Case Study” on page 4-180

•
“Portfolio Optimization Examples Using Financial Toolbox” on page 4-161

•
“Portfolio Optimization with Semicontinuous and Cardinality Constraints” on page 4-190

•
“Black-Litterman Portfolio Optimization Using Financial Toolbox” on page 4-222

Portfolio Object

4-23