deterministic function Ct that accepts the current time t and returns an NBrowns-by-NBrowns
positive semidefinite correlation matrix. If Correlation is not a symmetric positive semidefinite
matrix, use nearcorr to create a positive semidefinite matrix for a correlation matrix.

A Correlation matrix represents a static condition.

If you specify Correlation as a deterministic function of time, you can specify a dynamic
correlation structure.

Data Types: double

Drift — Drift-rate component of continuous-time stochastic differential equations (SDEs)
value stored from drift-rate function (default) | drift object or function accessible by (t, Xt)

This property is read-only.

Drift-rate component of continuous-time stochastic differential equations (SDEs), specified as a
drift object or function accessible by (t, Xt).

The drift-rate specification supports the simulation of sample paths of NVars state variables driven by
NBrowns Brownian motion sources of risk over NPeriods consecutive observation periods,
approximating continuous-time stochastic processes.

Use the drift function to create drift objects of the form

F(t, Xt) = A(t) + B(t)Xt

Here:

•
A is an NVars-by-1 vector-valued function accessible using the (t, Xt) interface.

•
B is an NVars-by-NVars matrix-valued function accessible using the (t, Xt) interface.

The displayed parameters for a drift object are:

•
Rate — Drift-rate function, F(t,Xt)

•
A — Intercept term, A(t,Xt), of F(t,Xt)

•
B — First-order term, B(t,Xt), of F(t,Xt)

A and B enable you to query the original inputs. The function stored in Rate fully encapsulates the
combined effect of A and B.

Specifying AB as MATLAB double arrays clearly associates them with a linear drift rate parametric
form. However, specifying either A or B as a function allows you to customize virtually any drift-rate
specification.

Note You can express drift and diffusion objects in the most general form to emphasize the
functional (t, Xt) interface. However, you can specify the components A and B as functions that adhere
to the common (t, Xt) interface, or as MATLAB arrays of appropriate dimension.

Example: F = drift(0, 0.1) % Drift-rate function F(t,X)

Data Types: object

15
Functions

15-206