Error in Portfolio/estimateFrontier (line 63)
    [A, b, f0, f, H, g, lb] = mv_optim_transform(obj);

or

Error using mv_optim_transform (line 238)
Cannot obtain finite lower bounds for specified portfolio set.

Error in Portfolio/estimateFrontier (line 63)
    [A, b, f0, f, H, g, lb] = mv_optim_transform(obj);

Since the portfolio optimization tools require a bounded portfolio set, these errors (and similar
errors) can occur if your portfolio set is either empty and, if nonempty, unbounded. Specifically, the
portfolio optimization algorithm requires that your portfolio set have at least a finite lower bound.
The best way to deal with these problems is to use the validation functions in “Validate the Portfolio
Problem for Portfolio Object” on page 4-94. Specifically, use estimateBounds to examine your
portfolio set, and use checkFeasibility to ensure that your initial portfolio is either feasible and, if
infeasible, that you have sufficient turnover to get from your initial portfolio to the portfolio set.

Tip To correct this problem, try solving your problem with larger values for turnover or tracking-
error and gradually reduce to the value that you want.

solveContinuousCustomObjProb or solveMICustomObjProb Errors

These errors can occur if the portfolio set is empty or unbounded. If the portfolio set is empty, the
error states that the problem is infeasible. The best way to deal with these problems is to use the
validation functions in “Validate the Portfolio Problem for Portfolio Object” on page 4-94. Specifically,
use estimateBounds to examine your portfolio set, and use checkFeasibility to ensure that
your initial portfolio is either feasible or, if infeasible, that you have sufficient turnover to get from
your initial portfolio to the portfolio set.

Efficient Portfolios Do Not Make Sense

If you obtain efficient portfolios that do not seem to make sense, this can happen if you forget to set
specific constraints or you set incorrect constraints. For example, if you allow portfolio weights to fall
between 0 and 1 and do not set a budget constraint, you can get portfolios that are 100% invested in
every asset. Although it may be hard to detect, the best thing to do is to review the constraints you
have set with display of the object. If you get portfolios with 100% invested in each asset, you can
review the display of your object and quickly see that no budget constraint is set. Also, you can use
estimateBounds and checkFeasibility to determine if the bounds for your portfolio set make
sense and to determine if the portfolios you obtained are feasible relative to an independent
formulation of your portfolio set.

Efficient Frontiers Do Not Make Sense

If you obtain efficient frontiers that do not seem to make sense, this can happen for some cases of
mean and covariance of asset returns. It is possible for some mean-variance portfolio optimization
problems to have difficulties at the endpoints of the efficient frontier. It is rare for standard portfolio
problems, but this can occur. For example, this can occur when using unusual combinations of
turnover constraints and transaction costs. Usually, the workaround of setting the hidden property
enforcePareto produces a single portfolio for the entire efficient frontier, where any other
solutions are not Pareto optimal (which is what efficient portfolios must be).

4
Mean-Variance Portfolio Optimization Tools

4-146