equals the initial investment. If all the cfns are positive there is only one solution. Every time there is
a change of sign between coefficients, up to two additional real roots are possible.

Another toolbox rate function, effrr, calculates the effective rate of return given an annual interest
rate (also known as nominal rate or annual percentage rate, APR) and number of compounding
periods per year. To find the effective rate of a 9% APR compounded monthly, enter

Rate = effrr(0.09, 12)

Rate = 
0.0938

The Rate is 9.38%.

A companion function nomrr computes the nominal rate of return given the effective annual rate and
the number of compounding periods.

Present or Future Values

This example shows how to compute the present or future value of cash flows at regular or irregular
time intervals with equal or unequal payments.

To compute the present or future value, you can use the following functuions: fvfix, fvvar, pvfix,
and pvvar. The -fix functions assume equal cash flows at regular intervals, while the -var
functions allow irregular cash flows at irregular periods.

Specify the income stream as an initial investment of $20,000 followed by three annual return
payments, a second investment of $5,000, then four more returns. Investments are negative cash
flows, return payments are positive cash flows.

Stream = [-20000,  2000,  2500,  3500, -5000,  6500, ...
            9500,  9500,  9500];

Use irr to compute the internal rate of return of the cash stream.

ROR = irr(Stream)

ROR = 
0.1172

Compute the net present value of the sample income stream for which you computed the internal rate
of return. This exercise also serves as a check on that calculation because the net present value of a
cash stream at its internal rate of return should be zero. Enter

NPV = pvvar(Stream, ROR)

NPV = 
5.9117e-12

The NPV is very close to zero. The answer usually is not exactly zero due to rounding errors and the
computational precision of the computer. Note, other toolbox functions behave similarly. The
functions that compute a bond's yield, for example, often must solve a nonlinear equation. If you then
use that yield to compute the net present value of the bond's income stream, it usually does not
exactly equal the purchase price, but the difference is negligible for practical applications.

2
Performing Common Financial Tasks

2-12