Note Although roughheston enforces no restrictions, the Volatility is usually nonnegative.

Data Types: double | function_handle

Alpha — Kernel function parameter representing roughness index
scalar numeric

Kernel function parameter representing the roughness index, specified as numeric scalar. The value
of Alpha must be in the range (-0.5 to 0). The corresponding fractional Brownian motion (fBm) is
defined with Hurst index H = Alpha + 0.5.

Data Types: double

Name-Value Arguments

Specify optional pairs of arguments as Name1=Value1,...,NameN=ValueN, where Name is the
argument name and Value is the corresponding value. Name-value arguments must appear after
other arguments, but the order of the pairs does not matter.

Example: RoughHeston =
roughheston(Return,Speed,Level,Volatility,Alpha,Correlation=0.02)

StartTime — Starting time of first observation, applied to all state variables
0 (default) | scalar

Starting time of the first observation, applied to all state variables, specified as a scalar.

Data Types: double

StartState — Initial values of state variables on all trials
1 (default) | scalar, column vector, or matrix

Initial values of the state variables on all trials, specified as a scalar, column vector, or matrix.

•
If StartState is a scalar, roughheston applies the same initial value to all state variables on all
trials.

•
If StartState is a 2-by-1 column vector, roughheston applies a unique initial value to each
state variable on all trials.

•
If StartState is a 2-by-NTRIALS matrix, roughheston applies a unique initial value to each
state variable on each NTRIALS trials.

Data Types: double

Correlation — Correlation between Gaussian random variates drawn to generate bivariate
Brownian motion vector (Wiener processes)
2-by-2 identity matrix representing independent Gaussian processes (default) | numeric scalar |
positive semidefinite matrix | deterministic function

Correlation between Gaussian random variates drawn to generate the bivariate Brownian motion
vector (Wiener processes), specified as numeric scalar, a 2-by-2 positive semidefinite matrix, or a
deterministic function C(t) that accepts the current time t and returns a 2-by-2 positive semidefinite
correlation matrix. If Correlation is not a symmetric positive semidefinite matrix, use nearcorr to
create a positive semidefinite matrix for a correlation matrix.

A Correlation matrix represents a static condition.

15
Functions

15-228