The contour levels now indicate capital requirements as a percentage of portfolio value. The two
scenarios above, profits of 10% with spread of 3.5%, and profits of -2.5% and spread of 2%, result in
capital requirements near 2.75%. The worst-case point from the historical data yields a capital
requirement of about 3%.

This visualization can also be used, for example, as part of a reverse stress test analysis. Critical
levels of capital can be determined first, and the figure can be used to determine regions of risk
factor values (in this case CPF and SPR) that lead to those critical levels.

Instead of historical observations of CPF and SPR, an empirical distribution for the risk factors can be
simulated using, for example, a vector autoregressive (VAR) model from Econometrics Toolbox™. The
capital requirements corresponding to each default probability level can be found by simulation if a
closed form formula is not available, and the same plots can be generated. For large simulations, a
distributed computing implementation using Parallel Computing Toolbox™ or MATLAB® Parallel
Server™ can make the process more efficient.

Appendix: Modeling Full Transition Matrices

Transition matrices change in time, and a full description of their dynamics requires working with
multi-dimensional time series. There are, however, techniques that exploit the particular structure of
transition matrices to reduce the dimensionality of the problem. In [8 on page 8-43], for example, a
single parameter related to the proportion of downgrades is used, and both [6 on page 8-43] and [8
on page 8-43] describe a method to shift transition probabilities using a single parameter. The latter
approach is shown in this appendix.

The method takes the TTC transition matrix as a baseline.

tmTTC = transprobbytotals(totalsByRtg);
Example_DisplayTransitions(tmTTC,[], ...
   {'AAA','AA','A','BBB','BB','B','CCC'}, ...
   {'AAA','AA','A','BBB','BB','B','CCC','D','NR'})

Forecasting Corporate Default Rates

8-39