Analyzing Portfolios

Portfolio managers concentrate their efforts on achieving the best possible trade-off between risk and
return. For portfolios constructed from a fixed set of assets, the risk/return profile varies with the
portfolio composition. Portfolios that maximize the return, given the risk, or, conversely, minimize the
risk for the given return, are called optimal. Optimal portfolios define a line in the risk/return plane
called the efficient frontier.

A portfolio may also have to meet additional requirements to be considered. Different investors have
different levels of risk tolerance. Selecting the adequate portfolio for a particular investor is a difficult
process. The portfolio manager can hedge the risk related to a particular portfolio along the efficient
frontier with partial investment in risk-free assets. The definition of the capital allocation line, and
finding where the final portfolio falls on this line, if at all, is a function of:

•
The risk/return profile of each asset

•
The risk-free rate

•
The borrowing rate

•
The degree of risk aversion characterizing an investor

Financial Toolbox software includes a set of portfolio optimization functions designed to find the
portfolio that best meets investor requirements.

Warning frontcon has been removed. Use Portfolio instead.

portopt has been partially removed and will no longer accept ConSet or varargin arguments.
portopt will only solve the portfolio problem for long-only fully invested portfolios. Use Portfolio
instead.

See Also
portalloc | frontier | portopt | Portfolio | portcons | portvrisk | pcalims | pcgcomp |
pcglims | pcpval | abs2active | active2abs

Related Examples

•
“Portfolio Optimization Functions” on page 3-3

•
“Portfolio Construction Examples” on page 3-5

•
“Portfolio Selection and Risk Aversion” on page 3-7

•
“Active Returns and Tracking Error Efficient Frontier” on page 3-27

•
“Plotting an Efficient Frontier Using portopt” on page 10-22

More About

•
“Portfolio Object Workflow” on page 4-18

3
Portfolio Analysis

3-2