Data Types: double

Covar0 — User-supplied initial or known estimate for the covariance matrix of the
regression residuals
identity matrix (default) | matrix

(Optional) User-supplied initial or known estimate for the covariance matrix of the regression
residuals, specified as an NUMSERIES-by-NUMSERIES matrix.

For covariance-weighted least-squares calculations, this matrix corresponds with weights for each
series in the regression. The matrix also serves as an initial guess for the residual covariance in the
expectation conditional maximization (ECM) algorithm.

Data Types: double

CovarFormat — Format for covariance matrix
'full' (default) | character vector with value 'full' or 'diagonal'

(Optional) Format for the covariance matrix, specified as a character vector. The choices are:

•
'full' — This is the default method that computes the full covariance matrix.

•
'diagonal' — This forces the covariance matrix to be a diagonal matrix.

Data Types: char

Output Arguments

Parameters — Parameters of the regression model
vector

Parameters of the regression model, returned as an NUMPARAMS-by-1 column vector of estimates for
the parameters of the regression model.

Covariance — Covariance of the regression model's residuals
matrix

Covariance of the regression model's residuals, returned as an NUMSERIES-by-NUMSERIES matrix of
estimates for the covariance of the regression model's residuals.

Resid — Residuals from the regression
matrix

Residuals from the regression, returned as an NUMSAMPLES-by-NUMSERIES matrix of residuals from
the regression.

Info — Structure containing additional information from the regression
structure

Structure containing additional information from the regression, returned as a structure. The
structure has these fields:

•
Info.Obj – A variable-extent column vector, with no more than MaxIterations elements, that
contain each value of the objective function at each iteration of the estimation algorithm. The last
value in this vector, Obj(end), is the terminal estimate of the objective function. If you do least
squares, the objective function is the least squares objective function.

15
Functions

15-862