Data Types: object

Times — Interpolation times
vector

Interpolation times, specified as a NTimes element vector. The length of this vector determines the
number of rows in the interpolated output time series XT.

Data Types: double

Paths — Sample paths of correlated state variables
time series array

Sample paths of correlated state variables, specified as a NPeriods-by-NVars-by-NTrials time
series array.

For a given trial, each row of this array is the transpose of the state vector Xt at time t. Paths is the
initial time series array into which the interpolate function performs the Brownian interpolation.

Data Types: double

Name-Value Pair Arguments

Specify optional pairs of arguments as Name1=Value1,...,NameN=ValueN, where Name is the
argument name and Value is the corresponding value. Name-value arguments must appear after
other arguments, but the order of the pairs does not matter.

Before R2021a, use commas to separate each name and value, and enclose Name in quotes.

Example: [XT,T] = interpolate(MDL,T,Paths,'Times',t)

Times — Observation times associated with the time series input Paths
zero-based, unit-increment column vector of length NPeriods (default) | column vector

Observation times associated with the time series input Paths, specified as the comma-separated
pair consisting of 'Times' and a column vector.

Data Types: double

Refine — Flag that indicates whether interpolate uses the interpolation times you
request
False (interpolate bases the interpolation only on the state information specified in Paths)
(default) | logical with values True or False

Flag that indicates whether interpolate uses the interpolation times you request (see T) to refine
the interpolation as new information becomes available, specified as the comma-separated pair
consisting of 'Refine' and a logical with a value of True or False.

Data Types: logical

Processes — Sequence of background processes or state vector adjustments
interpolate makes no adjustments and performs no processing (default) | function | cell array of
functions

Sequence of background processes or state vector adjustments, specified as the comma-separated
pair consisting of 'Processes' and a function or cell array of functions of the form

interpolate

15-153