Troubleshooting MAD Portfolio Optimization Results

PortfolioMAD Object Destroyed When Modifying

If a PortfolioMAD object is destroyed when modifying, remember to pass an existing object into the
PortfolioMAD object if you want to modify it, otherwise it creates a new object. See “Creating the
PortfolioMAD Object” on page 6-22 for details.

Matrix Incompatibility and "Non-Conformable" Errors

If you get matrix incompatibility or "non-conformable" errors, the representation of data in the tools
follows a specific set of basic rules described in “Conventions for Representation of Data” on page 6-
20.

Missing Data Estimation Fails

If asset return data has missing or NaN values, the simulateNormalScenariosByData function
with the 'missingdata' flag set to true may fail with either too many iterations or a singular
covariance. To correct this problem, consider this:

•
If you have asset return data with no missing or NaN values, you can compute a covariance matrix
that may be singular without difficulties. If you have missing or NaN values in your data, the
supported missing data feature requires that your covariance matrix must be positive-definite,
that is, nonsingular.

•
simulateNormalScenariosByData uses default settings for the missing data estimation
procedure that might not be appropriate for all problems.

In either case, you might want to estimate the moments of asset returns separately with either the
ECM estimation functions such as ecmnmle or with your own functions.

mad_optim_transform Errors

If you obtain optimization errors such as:

Error using mad_optim_transform (line 276)
Portfolio set appears to be either empty or unbounded. Check constraints.

Error in PortfolioMAD/estimateFrontier (line 64)
    [AI, bI, AE, bE, lB, uB, f0, f, x0] = mad_optim_transform(obj);

or

Error using mad_optim_transform (line 281)
Cannot obtain finite lower bounds for specified portfolio set.

Error in PortfolioMAD/estimateFrontier (line 64)
    [AI, bI, AE, bE, lB, uB, f0, f, x0] = mad_optim_transform(obj);

Since the portfolio optimization tools require a bounded portfolio set, these errors (and similar
errors) can occur if your portfolio set is either empty and, if nonempty, unbounded. Specifically, the
portfolio optimization algorithm requires that your portfolio set have at least a finite lower bound.
The best way to deal with these problems is to use the validation methods in “Validate the MAD
Portfolio Problem” on page 6-80. Specifically, use estimateBounds to examine your portfolio set,
and use checkFeasibility to ensure that your initial portfolio is either feasible and, if infeasible,
that you have sufficient turnover to get from your initial portfolio to the portfolio set.

6
MAD Portfolio Optimization Tools

6-118