Holiday — Holidays and nontrading-day dates
non-trading day vector is determined by the routine holidays (default) | datetime array | string
array | date character vector

Holidays and nontrading-day dates, specified as vector using a datetime array, string array, date
character vectors, or serial date numbers.

Note The holidays function supplies the default vector.

All dates in Holiday must be the same format: either datetimes, strings, or date character vectors.

If Holiday is a datetime array, then Date is returned as a datetime array. If outputType is
specified, then its value determines the output type of Date. This overrides any influence of
Holiday.

To support existing code, fbusdate also accepts serial date numbers as inputs, but they are not
recommended.

Data Types: char | string | datetime

Weekend — Weekend days
[1 0 0 0 0 0 1] (Saturday and Sunday form the weekend) (default) | vector of length 7,
containing 0 and 1, where 1 indicates weekend days

Weekend days, specified as a vector of length 7, containing 0 and 1, where 1 indicates weekend days
and the first element of this vector corresponds to Sunday.

Data Types: double

outputType — Year to determine days
'datenum' (default) | character vector with values 'datenum' or 'datetime'

A character vector specified as either 'datenum' or 'datetime'. The output Date is in serial date
format if 'datenum' is specified, or datetime format if 'datetime' is specified. By default the
output Date is in serial date format, or match the format of Holiday, if specified.

Data Types: char

Output Arguments

Date — Date for the first business date of given year and month
serial date number | datetime array

Date for the first business date of a given year and month, returned as a datetime or serial date
number.

If neither Holiday nor outputType are specified, Date is returned as a serial date number. If
Holiday is specified, but not outputType, then the type of the holiday variable controls the type of
date:

•
If Holiday is a string or date character vector, then Date is returned as a serial date number. Use
the function datetime to convert serial date numbers to formatted datetime arrays.

•
If Holiday is a datetime array, then Date is returned as a datetime array.

15
Functions

15-1042