Portfolio Optimization Theory

In this section...

“Portfolio Optimization Problems” on page 4-4

“Portfolio Problem Specification” on page 4-4

“Return Proxy” on page 4-5

“Risk Proxy” on page 4-6

Portfolio Optimization Problems

Portfolio optimization problems involve identifying portfolios that satisfy three criteria:

•
Minimize a proxy for risk.

•
Match or exceed a proxy for return.

•
Satisfy basic feasibility requirements.

Portfolios are points from a feasible set of assets that constitute an asset universe. A portfolio
specifies either holdings or weights in each individual asset in the asset universe. The convention is
to specify portfolios in terms of weights, although the portfolio optimization tools work with holdings
as well.

The set of feasible portfolios is necessarily a nonempty, closed, and bounded set. The proxy for risk is
a function that characterizes either the variability or losses associated with portfolio choices. The
proxy for return is a function that characterizes either the gross or net benefits associated with
portfolio choices. The terms “risk” and “risk proxy” and “return” and “return proxy” are
interchangeable. The fundamental insight of Markowitz (see “Portfolio Optimization” on page A-5)
is that the goal of the portfolio choice problem is to seek minimum risk for a given level of return and
to seek maximum return for a given level of risk. Portfolios satisfying these criteria are efficient
portfolios and the graph of the risks and returns of these portfolios forms a curve called the efficient
frontier.

Portfolio Problem Specification

To specify a portfolio optimization problem, you need the following:

•
Proxy for portfolio return (μ)

•
Proxy for portfolio risk (σ)

•
Set of feasible portfolios (X), called a portfolio set

Financial Toolbox has three objects to solve specific types of portfolio optimization problems:

•
The Portfolio object supports mean-variance portfolio optimization (see Markowitz [46], [47] at
“Portfolio Optimization” on page A-5). This object has either gross or net portfolio returns as
the return proxy, the variance of portfolio returns as the risk proxy, and a portfolio set that is any
combination of the specified constraints to form a portfolio set.

•
The PortfolioCVaR object implements what is known as conditional value-at-risk portfolio
optimization (see Rockafellar and Uryasev [48], [49] at “Portfolio Optimization” on page A-5),
which is referred to as CVaR portfolio optimization. CVaR portfolio optimization works with the

4
Mean-Variance Portfolio Optimization Tools

4-4