Input Arguments

Return — Expected (mean) instantaneous rate of return of GBM price process
array, deterministic function of time, deterministic function of time and state

Expected (mean) instantaneous rate of return of the GBM price process, specified as an array, a
numeric scalar, or a deterministic function of time as a function handle accepting scalar time t or as a
function of time and state as scalar time t followed by a 2-by-1 bivariate state vector X(t).

Data Types: double | function_handle

Speed — Mean-reversion speed of stochastic variance process
array or deterministic function of time

Mean-reversion speed of the stochastic variance process, specified as an array or deterministic
function of time.

If you specify Speed as an array, it must be a scalar value.

As a deterministic function of time, when Speed is called with a real-valued scalar time t as its only
input, Speed must produce a scalar value.

Note Although roughheston enforces no restrictions, the mean-reversion speed is usually
nonnegative such that the underlying process reverts to some stable level.

Data Types: double | function_handle

Level — Reversion level or long-run average of stochastic variance process
array or deterministic function of time

Reversion level or long-run average of the stochastic variance process, specified as an array or
deterministic function of time.

If you specify Level as an array, it must be a scalar value

As a deterministic function of time, when Level is called with a real-valued scalar time t as its only
input, Speed must produce a scalar value.

Note Although roughheston enforces no restrictions, the mean-reversion level is usually positive.

Data Types: double | function_handle

Volatility — Instantaneous volatility of stochastic variance process
scalar or deterministic function of time or deterministic function of time and state

Instantaneous volatility of the stochastic variance process (often called the volatility of volatility or
volatility of variance), specified as a scalar, or deterministic function of time.

If you specify Volatility as an array, it must be a scalar value.

As a deterministic function of time, when Volatility is called with a real-valued scalar time t as its
only input, Volatility must produce a scalar.

roughheston

15-227