In the Equity Curve plot, the tilted MDP strategy is the one that performs the best by the end of the
investment period, followed by the mixed MDP strategy with the ESG constraint. The performance of
the mixed and tilted strategies depend on the choice of the penalty parameters. Both ESG methods,
the constrained and the tilted methods, require defining two parameters for each strategy. The ESG
constrained method requires you to provide a target ESG score and a penalty parameter for the
diversification term. The ESG tilting requires one penalty parameter value for the assets with 'high'
ESG scores and a different one for 'low' ESG scores. In addition, the ESG tilting requires a third
parameter to determine the cutoff point between 'high' and 'low' ESG assets. Given the
dependency of the penalized strategies on the value of their parameters, the performance of those
strategies vary widely. However, this example shows that it is possible to find values of the
parameters so that the resulting strategies obtain good returns while improving on the average ESG
score.

The ESG Curves plot shows the average ESG evolution computed throughout the investment period
for the penalized investment strategies, both for the ESG constrained method and the ESG tilting
method. You can see that, unlike the choice of the ESG target for the ESG constraint, the selection of
the tilting penalty parameters has an effect on the ESG score of the optimal portfolios that is less
explicit. Therefore, the average ESG score varies more with the tilting strategies than with the
constrained strategies, as expected.

Although not shown in this example, the traditional minimum variance portfolio strategy, subject to
the same expected return and ESG levels, results in higher average turnover and transaction costs
than any of the strategies covered in the example. Another advantage of adding a diversification
measure to the formulation of the problem is to reduce the average turnover and transaction costs.

References

[1] Richard, J. C., and T. Roncalli. Smart Beta: Managing Diversification of Minimum Variance
Portfolios. Risk-Based and Factor Investing. Elsevier, pp. 31-63, 2015.

Diversify ESG Portfolios

4-281