This technique attempts to reduce variance by inducing negative dependence between paired input
samples, ideally resulting in negative dependence between paired output samples. The greater the
extent of negative dependence, the more effective antithetic sampling is.

Algorithms

The simBySolution function simulates NTRIALS sample paths of NVARS correlated state variables,
driven by NBROWNS Brownian motion sources of risk over NPERIODS consecutive observation periods,
approximating continuous-time GBM short-rate models by an approximation of the closed-form
solution.

Consider a separable, vector-valued GBM model of the form:

dXt = μ(t)Xtdt + D(t, Xt)V(t)dWt

where:

•
Xt is an NVARS-by-1 state vector of process variables.

•
μ is an NVARS-by-NVARS generalized expected instantaneous rate of return matrix.

•
V is an NVARS-by-NBROWNS instantaneous volatility rate matrix.

•
dWt is an NBROWNS-by-1 Brownian motion vector.

The simBySolution function simulates the state vector Xt using an approximation of the closed-form
solution of diagonal-drift models.

When evaluating the expressions, simBySolution assumes that all model parameters are piecewise-
constant over each simulation period.

In general, this is not the exact solution to the models, because the probability distributions of the
simulated and true state vectors are identical only for piecewise-constant parameters.

When parameters are piecewise-constant over each observation period, the simulated process is
exact for the observation times at which Xt is sampled.

Gaussian diffusion models, such as hwv, allow negative states. By default, simBySolution does
nothing to prevent negative states, nor does it guarantee that the model be strictly mean-reverting.
Thus, the model may exhibit erratic or explosive growth.

Version History
Introduced in R2008a

R2022a: Perform Quasi-Monte Carlo simulation
Behavior changed in R2022a

Perform Quasi-Monte Carlo simulation using the name-value arguments MonteCarloMethod and
QuasiSequence.

R2022b: Perform Brownian bridge and principal components construction
Behavior changed in R2022b

Perform Brownian bridge and principal components construction using the name-value argument
BrownianMotionMethod.

15
Functions

15-120