Common Operations on the PortfolioMAD Object

In this section...

“Naming a PortfolioMAD Object” on page 6-29

“Configuring the Assets in the Asset Universe” on page 6-29

“Setting Up a List of Asset Identifiers” on page 6-29

“Truncating and Padding Asset Lists” on page 6-31

Naming a PortfolioMAD Object

To name a PortfolioMAD object, use the Name property. Name is informational and has no effect on
any portfolio calculations. If the Name property is nonempty, Name is the title for the efficient frontier
plot generated by plotFrontier. For example, if you set up an asset allocation fund, you could
name the PortfolioMAD object Asset Allocation Fund:

p = PortfolioMAD('Name','Asset Allocation Fund');
disp(p.Name);
Asset Allocation Fund

Configuring the Assets in the Asset Universe

The fundamental quantity in the PortfolioMAD object is the number of assets in the asset universe.
This quantity is maintained in the NumAssets property. Although you can set this property directly, it
is usually derived from other properties such as the number of assets in the scenarios or the initial
portfolio. In some instances, the number of assets may need to be set directly. This example shows
how to set up a PortfolioMAD object that has four assets:

p = PortfolioMAD('NumAssets', 4);
disp(p.NumAssets)

4

After setting the NumAssets property, you cannot modify it (unless no other properties are set that
depend on NumAssets). The only way to change the number of assets in an existing PortfolioMAD
object with a known number of assets is to create a new PortfolioMAD object.

Setting Up a List of Asset Identifiers

When working with portfolios, you must specify a universe of assets. Although you can perform a
complete analysis without naming the assets in your universe, it is helpful to have an identifier
associated with each asset as you create and work with portfolios. You can create a list of asset
identifiers as a cell vector of character vectors in the property AssetList. You can set up the list
using the next two methods.

Setting Up Asset Lists Using the PortfolioMAD Function

Suppose that you have a PortfolioMAD object, p, with assets with symbols 'AA'', 'BA', 'CAT',
'DD', and 'ETR'. You can create a list of these asset symbols in the object using PortfolioMAD:

p = PortfolioMAD('assetlist', { 'AA', 'BA', 'CAT', 'DD', 'ETR' });
disp(p.AssetList)

Common Operations on the PortfolioMAD Object

6-29