As a deterministic function of time, when Sigma is called with a real-valued scalar time t as its only
input, Sigma must produce an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix. If you specify Sigma as a function of time
and state, it must return an NVars-by-NBrowns matrix of volatility rates when invoked with two
inputs:

•
A real-valued scalar observation time t.

•
An NVars-by-1 state vector Xt.

Although the gbm object enforces no restrictions on the sign of Sigma volatilities, they are specified
as positive values.

Data Types: double | function_handle

Output Arguments

GBM — GBM model
GBM object

GBM model, returned as a GBM object.

Properties

StartTime — Starting time of first observation, applied to all state variables
0 (default) | scalar

Starting time of first observation, applied to all state variables, specified as a scalar

Data Types: double

StartState — Initial values of state variables
1 (default) | scalar, column vector, or matrix

Initial values of state variables, specified as a scalar, column vector, or matrix.

If StartState is a scalar, the gbm object applies the same initial value to all state variables on all
trials.

If StartState is a column vector, the gbm object applies a unique initial value to each state variable
on all trials.

If StartState is a matrix, the gbm object applies a unique initial value to each state variable on each
trial.

Data Types: double

Correlation — Correlation between Gaussian random variates drawn to generate the
Brownian motion vector (Wiener processes)
NBrowns-by-NBrowns identity matrix representing independent Gaussian processes (default) |
positive semidefinite matrix | deterministic function

Correlation between Gaussian random variates drawn to generate the Brownian motion vector
(Wiener processes), specified as an NBrowns-by-NBrowns positive semidefinite matrix, or as a
deterministic function C(t) that accepts the current time t and returns an NBrowns-by-NBrowns
positive semidefinite correlation matrix. If Correlation is not a symmetric positive semidefinite
matrix, use nearcorr to create a positive semidefinite matrix for a correlation matrix.

gbm

15-103