roughbergomi

Rough Bergomi model

Description

Creates and displays a roughbergomi object.

Rough Bergomi models are bivariate composite models, composed of two coupled and dissimilar
univariate models, each driven by a single Brownian motion source of risk over NPERIODS
consecutive observation periods, approximating continuous-time rough stochastic volatility processes.

The first univariate model is a geometric Brownian motion (GBM) model with a stochastic volatility
function, and usually corresponds to a price process whose variance rate is governed by the second
univariate model. The second model includes a Volterra process (Riemann-Liouville) which induces
the rough behavior of the variance rate (modeling log variance) of the coupled GBM price process.

Creation

Syntax

RoughBergomi = roughbergomi(Return,Alpha,Xi,Eta)
RoughBergomi = roughbergomi( ___ ,Name=Value)

Description

RoughBergomi = roughbergomi(Return,Alpha,Xi,Eta) creates a default RoughBergomi
object with “Properties” on page 15-221 for these required arguments.

Specify the required input parameters as one of the following types:

•
A MATLAB array. Specifying an array indicates a static (non-time-varying) parametric
specification. This array fully captures all implementation details, which are clearly associated
with a parametric form.

•
A MATLAB function. Specifying a function provides indirect support for virtually any static,
dynamic, linear, or nonlinear model. This parameter is supported through an interface because all
implementation details are hidden and fully encapsulated by the function.

Note You can specify combinations of array and function input parameters as needed. Moreover, a
parameter is identified as a deterministic function of time if the function accepts a scalar time t as its
only input argument. Otherwise, a parameter is assumed to be a function of time t and state X(t) and
is invoked with both input arguments.

RoughBergomi = roughbergomi( ___ ,Name=Value) creates a RoughBergomi object with
additional options specified by one or more name-value arguments to set the properties on page 15-
221.

roughbergomi

15-219