Drift — Drift rate component of continuous-time stochastic differential equations (SDEs)
value stored from drift-rate function (default) | drift object or function accessible by (t, Xt)

This property is read-only.

Drift rate component of continuous-time stochastic differential equations (SDEs), specified as a drift
object or function accessible by (t, Xt.

The drift rate specification supports the simulation of sample paths of NVars state variables driven by
NBrowns Brownian motion sources of risk over NPeriods consecutive observation periods,
approximating continuous-time stochastic processes.

The drift class allows you to create drift-rate objects using drift of the form:

F(t, Xt) = A(t) + B(t)Xt

where:

•
A is an NVars-by-1 vector-valued function accessible using the (t, Xt) interface.

•
B is an NVars-by-NVars matrix-valued function accessible using the (t, Xt) interface.

The displayed parameters for a drift object are:

•
Rate: The drift-rate function, F(t,Xt)

•
A: The intercept term, A(t,Xt), of F(t,Xt)

•
B: The first order term, B(t,Xt), of F(t,Xt)

A and B enable you to query the original inputs. The function stored in Rate fully encapsulates the
combined effect of A and B.

When specified as MATLAB double arrays, the inputs A and B are clearly associated with a linear drift
rate parametric form. However, specifying either A or B as a function allows you to customize
virtually any drift rate specification.

Note You can express drift and diffusion classes in the most general form to emphasize the
functional (t, Xt) interface. However, you can specify the components A and B as functions that adhere
to the common (t, Xt) interface, or as MATLAB arrays of appropriate dimension.

Example: F = drift(0, 0.1) % Drift rate function F(t,X)

Data Types: struct | double

Diffusion — Diffusion rate component of continuous-time stochastic differential equations
(SDEs)
value stored from diffusion-rate function (default) | diffusion object or functions accessible by (t, Xt)

This property is read-only.

Diffusion rate component of continuous-time stochastic differential equations (SDEs), specified as a
drift object or function accessible by (t, Xt.

The diffusion rate specification supports the simulation of sample paths of NVars state variables
driven by NBrowns Brownian motion sources of risk over NPeriods consecutive observation periods,
approximating continuous-time stochastic processes.

15
Functions

15-134