The first row of LPM contains zero-order lower partial moments of the three series. The fund and
market index fall below MAR about 40% of the time and cash returns fall below its own mean about
60% of the time.

The second row contains first-order lower partial moments of the three series. The fund and market
have large average shortfall returns relative to MAR by 75 and 140 basis points per month. On the
other hand, cash underperforms MAR by about only four basis points per month on the downside.

The third row contains second-order lower partial moments of the three series. The square root of
these quantities provides an idea of the dispersion of returns that fall below the MAR. The market
index has a much larger variation on the downside when compared to the fund.

Input Arguments

Data — Asset returns
matrix

Asset returns, specified as a NUMSAMPLES-by-NUMSERIES matrix with NUMSAMPLES observations of
NUMSERIES asset returns.

Data Types: double

MAR — Minimum acceptable return
0 (default) | numeric

(Optional) Minimum acceptable return, specified as a scalar numeric. MAR is a cutoff level of return
such that all returns above MAR contribute nothing to the lower partial moment.

Data Types: double

Order — Moment orders
0 (default) | scalar numeric | vector

(Optional) Moment orders, specified as either a scalar or a NUMORDERS vector of nonnegative integer
moment orders. If no order specified, the default Order = 0, which is the shortfall probability.
Although the lpm function works for noninteger orders and, in some cases, for negative orders, this
falls outside customary usage.

Data Types: double

Output Arguments

Moment — Lower partial moments
matrix

Lower partial moments, returned as a NUMORDERS x NUMSERIES matrix of lower partial moments
with NUMORDERS Orders and NUMSERIES series, that is, each row contains lower partial moments for
a given order.

Note To compute upper partial moments, reverse the signs of both Data and MAR (do not reverse
the sign of the output). The lpm function computes sample lower partial moments from data. To
compute expected lower partial moments for multivariate normal asset returns with a specified mean

lpm

15-1169