Input Arguments

Yield — Yield to maturity on semiannual basis
numeric

Yield to maturity on a semiannual basis, specified as numeric value using a scalar or a NUMBONDS-
by-1 or 1-by-NUMBONDS vector.

Data Types: double

CouponRate — Annual percentage rate used to determine coupons payable on a bond
decimal

Annual percentage rate used to determine the coupons payable on a bond, specified as decimal value
using a scalar or a NUMBONDS-by-1 or 1-by-NUMBONDS vector.

Data Types: double

Settle — Settlement date for certificate of deposit
datetime array | string array | date character vector

Settlement date for the certificate of deposit, specified as a scalar or a NUMBONDS-by-1 or 1-by-
NUMBONDS vector using a datetime array, string array, or date character vectors. The Settle date
must be before the Maturity date.

To support existing code, bndconvy also accepts serial date numbers as inputs, but they are not
recommended.

Data Types: char | string | datetime

Maturity — Maturity date for certificate of deposit
datetime array | string array | date character vector

Maturity date for the certificate of deposit, specified as a scalar or a NUMBONDS-by-1 or 1-by-
NUMBONDS vector using a datetime array, string array, or date character vectors.

To support existing code, bndconvy also accepts serial date numbers as inputs, but they are not
recommended.

Data Types: char | string | datetime

Name-Value Pair Arguments

Specify optional pairs of arguments as Name1=Value1,...,NameN=ValueN, where Name is the
argument name and Value is the corresponding value. Name-value arguments must appear after
other arguments, but the order of the pairs does not matter.

Before R2021a, use commas to separate each name and value, and enclose Name in quotes.

Example: [YearConvexity,PerConvexity] = bndconvy(Yield,CouponRate,Settle,
Maturity,'Period',4,'Basis',7)

Period — Number of coupon payments per year
2 (default) | numeric with values 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 12

Number of coupon payments per year, specified as the comma-separated pair consisting of 'Period'
and a scalar or a NUMBONDS-by-1 or 1-by-NUMBONDS vector using the values: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, or 12.

bndconvy

15-531