Asset Returns and Scenarios Using PortfolioMAD Object

In this section...

“How Stochastic Optimization Works” on page 6-35

“What Are Scenarios?” on page 6-35

“Setting Scenarios Using the PortfolioMAD Function” on page 6-36

“Setting Scenarios Using the setScenarios Function” on page 6-37

“Estimating the Mean and Covariance of Scenarios” on page 6-37

“Simulating Normal Scenarios” on page 6-38

“Simulating Normal Scenarios from Returns or Prices” on page 6-38

“Simulating Normal Scenarios with Missing Data” on page 6-39

“Simulating Normal Scenarios from Time Series Data” on page 6-41

“Simulating Normal Scenarios with Mean and Covariance” on page 6-43

How Stochastic Optimization Works

The MAD of a portfolio is mean-absolute deviation. For the definition of the MAD function, see “Risk
Proxy” on page 6-5. Although analytic solutions for MAD exist for a few probability distributions, an
alternative is to compute the expectation for MAD with samples from the probability distribution of
asset returns. These samples are called scenarios and, given a collection of scenarios, the portfolio
optimization problem becomes a stochastic optimization problem.

As a function of the portfolio weights, the MAD of the portfolio is a convex non-smooth function (see
Konno and Yamazaki [50] at “Portfolio Optimization” on page A-5). The PortfolioMAD object
computes MAD as this nonlinear function which can be handled by the solver fmincon Optimization
Toolbox. The nonlinear programming solver fmincon has several algorithms that can be selected
with the setSolver function, the two algorithms that work best in practice are 'sqp' and
'active-set'.

There are reformulations of the MAD portfolio optimization problem (see Konno and Yamazaki [50] at
“Portfolio Optimization” on page A-5) that result in a linear programming problem, which can be
solved either with standard linear programming techniques or with stochastic programming solvers.
The PortfolioMAD object, however, does not reformulate the problem in such a manner. The
PortfolioMAD object computes the MAD as a nonlinear function. The convexity of the MAD, as a
function of the portfolio weights and the dull edges when the number of scenarios is large, make the
MAD portfolio optimization problem tractable, in practice, for certain nonlinear programming solvers,
such as fmincon from Optimization Toolbox. To learn more about the workflow when using
PortfolioMAD objects, see “PortfolioMAD Object Workflow” on page 6-16.

What Are Scenarios?

Since mean absolute deviation portfolio optimization works with scenarios of asset returns to perform
the optimization, several ways exist to specify and simulate scenarios. In many applications with MAD
portfolio optimization, asset returns may have distinctly nonnormal probability distributions with
either multiple modes, binning of returns, truncation of distributions, and so forth. In other
applications, asset returns are modeled as the result of various simulation methods that might
include Monte-Carlo simulation, quasi-random simulation, and so forth. Often, the underlying

Asset Returns and Scenarios Using PortfolioMAD Object

6-35