PortfolioCVaR Object Workflow

The PortfolioCVaR object workflow for creating and modeling a CVaR portfolio is:

1
Create a CVaR Portfolio.

Create a PortfolioCVaR object for conditional value-at-risk (CVaR) portfolio optimization. For
more information, see “Creating the PortfolioCVaR Object” on page 5-22.

2
Define asset returns and scenarios.

Evaluate scenarios for portfolio asset returns, including assets with missing data and financial
time series data. For more information, see “Asset Returns and Scenarios Using PortfolioCVaR
Object” on page 5-36.

3
Specify the CVaR Portfolio Constraints.

Define the constraints for portfolio assets such as linear equality and inequality, bound, budget,
conditional budget, group, group ratio, turnover constraints, 'Conditional' BoundType, and
MinNumAssets, MaxNumAssets constraints. For more information, see “Working with CVaR
Portfolio Constraints Using Defaults” on page 5-51 and “Working with 'Conditional' BoundType,
MinNumAssets, and MaxNumAssets Constraints Using PortfolioCVaR Objects” on page 5-72.

4
Validate the CVaR Portfolio.

Identify errors for the portfolio specification. For more information, see “Validate the CVaR
Portfolio Problem” on page 5-81.

5
Estimate the efficient portfolios and frontiers.

Analyze the efficient portfolios and efficient frontiers for a CVaR portfolio. For more information,
see “Estimate Efficient Portfolios for Entire Frontier for PortfolioCVaR Object” on page 5-85 and
“Estimate Efficient Frontiers for PortfolioCVaR Object” on page 5-105.

6
Postprocess the results.

Use the efficient portfolios and efficient frontiers results to set up trades. For more information,
see “Postprocessing Results to Set Up Tradable Portfolios” on page 5-115.

See Also

Related Examples

•
“Hedging Using CVaR Portfolio Optimization” on page 5-125

•
“Compute Maximum Reward-to-Risk Ratio for CVaR Portfolio” on page 5-137

More About

•
“Portfolio Optimization Theory” on page 5-3

•
“Choosing and Controlling the Solver for PortfolioCVaR Optimizations” on page 5-98

External Websites

•
Getting Started with Portfolio Optimization (4 min 13 sec)

5
CVaR Portfolio Optimization Tools

5-16