Constraint Specification Using a Portfolio Object

When constructing the efficient frontier, several constraints are typically considered. You can use
linear constraints that define the limits within which the portfolio optimization problem must operate
and you can also use group constraints to limit the exposure to certain sectors or groups.

Constraints for Efficient Frontier

This example shows how to compute the efficient frontier of portfolios consisting of three different
assets, INTC, XON, and RD, given a list of constraints.

The expected returns for INTC, XON, and RD are respectively as follows:

ExpReturn = [0.1 0.2 0.15];

The covariance matrix is

ExpCovariance  =  [ 0.005   -0.010    0.004;
                   -0.010    0.040   -0.002;
                    0.004   -0.002    0.023];

•
Constraint 1: Allow short selling up to 10% of the portfolio value in any asset, but limit the
investment in any one asset to 110% of the portfolio value.

•
Constraint 2: Consider two different sectors, technology and energy, with the following table
indicating the sector each asset belongs to.

Asset
INTC
XON
RD

Sector
Technology
Energy
Energy

Constrain the investment in the Energy sector to 80% of the portfolio value, and the investment in the
Technology sector to 70%.To solve this problem, use Portfolio, passing in a list of asset
constraints. Consider eight different portfolios along the efficient frontier:

NumPorts = 8;

To introduce the asset bounds constraints specified in Constraint 1, create the matrix
AssetBounds, where each column represents an asset. The upper row represents the lower bounds,
and the lower row represents the upper bounds. Since the bounds are the same for each asset, only
one pair of bounds is needed because of scalar expansion.

AssetBounds = [-0.1, 1.1];

Constraint 2 must be entered in two parts, the first part defining the groups, and the second part
defining the constraints for each group. Given the information above, you can build a matrix of 1s and
0s indicating whether a specific asset belongs to a group. Each column represents an asset, and each
row represents a group. This example has two groups: the technology group, and the energy group.
Create the matrix Groups as follows:

Groups =  [0   1   1; 
           1   0   0];

The GroupBounds matrix allows you to specify an upper and lower bound for each group. Each row
in this matrix represents a group. The first column represents the minimum allocation, and the

Constraint Specification Using a Portfolio Object

3-19