Pricing and Computing Yields for Fixed-Income Securities

In this section...

“Introduction” on page 2-15

“Fixed-Income Terminology” on page 2-15

“Framework” on page 2-18

“Default Parameter Values” on page 2-18

“Coupon Date Calculations” on page 2-20

“Yield Conventions” on page 2-21

“Pricing Functions” on page 2-21

“Yield Functions” on page 2-21

“Fixed-Income Sensitivities” on page 2-22

Introduction

The Financial Toolbox product provides functions for computing accrued interest, price, yield,
convexity, and duration of fixed-income securities. Various conventions exist for determining the
details of these computations. The Financial Toolbox software supports conventions specified by the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA), used in the US markets, the
International Capital Market Association (ICMA), used mainly in the European markets, and the
International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA). For historical reasons, SIFMA is referred to
in Financial Toolbox documentation as SIA and ISMA is referred to as International Capital Market
Association (ICMA). Financial Instruments Toolbox™supports additional functionality for pricing
fixed-income securities. For more information, see “Price Interest-Rate Instruments” (Financial
Instruments Toolbox).

Fixed-Income Terminology

Since terminology varies among texts on this subject, here are some basic definitions that apply to
these Financial Toolbox functions.

The settlement date of a bond is the date when money first changes hands; that is, when a buyer pays
for a bond. It need not coincide with the issue date, which is the date a bond is first offered for sale.

The first coupon date and last coupon date are the dates when the first and last coupons are paid,
respectively. Although bonds typically pay periodic annual or semiannual coupons, the length of the
first and last coupon periods may differ from the standard coupon period. The toolbox includes price
and yield functions that handle these odd first and/or last periods.

Successive quasi-coupon dates determine the length of the standard coupon period for the fixed
income security of interest, and do not necessarily coincide with actual coupon payment dates. The
toolbox includes functions that calculate both actual and quasi-coupon dates for bonds with odd first
and/or last periods.

Fixed-income securities can be purchased on dates that do not coincide with coupon payment dates.
In this case, the bond owner is not entitled to the full value of the coupon for that period. When a
bond is purchased between coupon dates, the buyer must compensate the seller for the pro-rata
share of the coupon interest earned from the previous coupon payment date. This pro-rata share of

Pricing and Computing Yields for Fixed-Income Securities

2-15