Cash flow amounts, returned as a NBONDS-by-NCFS (number of cash flows) matrix. The first entry in
each row vector is the accrued interest due at settlement. This amount could be zero, positive or
negative. If no accrued interest is due, the first column is zero. If the bond is trading ex-coupon then
the accrued interest is negative.

CFlowDates — Cash flow dates for a portfolio of bonds
matrix

Cash flow dates for a portfolio of bonds, returned as a NBONDS-by-NCFS matrix. Each row represents
a single bond in the portfolio. Each element in a column represents a cash flow date of that bond.

If all the above inputs (Settle, Maturity, IssueDate, FirstCouponDate, LastCouponDate, and
StartDate) are either strings s or date character vectors, then CFlowDates is returned as a serial
date number. Use the function datestr to convert serial date numbers to formatted date character
vectors. If any of these inputs are datetime arrays, then CFlowDates is returned as a datetime array.

TFactors — Matrix of time factors for a portfolio of bonds
matrix

Matrix of time factors for a portfolio of bonds, returned as a NBONDS-by-NCFS matrix. Each row
corresponds to the vector of time factors for each bond. Each element in a column corresponds to the
specific time factor associated with each cash flow of a bond.

Time factors are for price/yield conversion and time factors are in units of whole semiannual coupon
periods plus any fractional period using an actual day count. For more information on time factors,
see “Time Factors” on page 15-679.

CFlowFlags — Cash flow flags for a portfolio of bonds
matrix

Cash flow flags for a portfolio of bonds, returned as a NBONDS-by-NCFS matrix. Each row corresponds
to the vector of cash flow flags for each bond. Each element in a column corresponds to the specific
flag associated with each cash flow of a bond. Flags identify the type of each cash flow (for example,
nominal coupon cash flow, front, or end partial, or "stub" coupon, maturity cash flow).

Flag
Cash Flow Type

0
Accrued interest due on a bond at settlement.

1
Initial cash flow amount smaller than normal due to a “stub” coupon period. A
stub period is created when the time from issue date to first coupon date is
shorter than normal.

2
Larger than normal initial cash flow amount because the first coupon period is
longer than normal.

3
Nominal coupon cash flow amount.

4
Normal maturity cash flow amount (face value plus the nominal coupon amount).

5
End “stub” coupon amount (last coupon period is abnormally short and actual
maturity cash flow is smaller than normal).

6
Larger than normal maturity cash flow because the last coupon period longer
than normal.

7
Maturity cash flow on a coupon bond when the bond has less than one coupon
period to maturity.

15
Functions

15-678