ts2func

Convert time series arrays to functions of time and state

Syntax

F = ts2func(Array)
F = ts2func( ___ ,Name,Value)

Description

F = ts2func(Array) encapsulates a time series array associated with a vector of real-valued
observation times within a MATLAB function suitable for Monte Carlo simulation of an NVars-by-1
state vector Xt.

n periods.

F = ts2func( ___ ,Name,Value) adds optional name-value pair arguments.

Examples

Dynamic Behavior of Market Parameters

As discussed in “Creating SDE Objects” on page 14-7, object parameters may be evaluated as if they
are MATLAB® functions accessible by a common interface. This accessibility provides the impression
of dynamic behavior regardless of whether the underlying parameters are truly time-varying.
Furthermore, because parameters are accessible by a common interface, seemingly simple linear
constructs may in fact represent complex, nonlinear designs.

For example, consider a univariate geometric Brownian motion (GBM) model of the form:

In this model, the return, μ(t), and volatility,σ(t), are dynamic parameters of time alone. However,
when creating a gbm object to represent the underlying model, such dynamic behavior must be
accessible by the common t, Xt interface. This reflects the fact that GBM models are restricted
parameterizations that derive from the general SDE class.

As a convenience, you can specify parameters of restricted models, such as GBM models, as
traditional MATLAB® arrays of appropriate dimension. In this case, such arrays represent a static
special case of the more general dynamic situation accessible by the t, Xt  interface.

Moreover, when you enter parameters as functions, object constructors can verify that they return
arrays of correct size by evaluating them at the initial time and state. Otherwise, object constructors
have no knowledge of any particular functional form.

The following example illustrates a technique that includes dynamic behavior by mapping a
traditional MATLAB® time series array to a callable function with a t, Xt  interface. It also compares
the function with an otherwise identical model with constant parameters.

ts2func

15-413