Using Extreme Value Theory and Copula Fitting to Generate
Synthetic Data

This example shows the workflow for generating synthetic equity index return data using Extreme
Value Theory (EVT) and a copula model. The objective of this example is to overcome challenges that
are often encountered in financial return series, such as heteroskedasticity and fat tails. EVT focuses
on the tails (the far left or right ends) of distribution curves, where extreme values lie. These values
occur with very low probability but have a significant impact when they do occur. By applying EVT,
you can effectively model the tail behavior of the equity index returns, which is crucial in capturing
extreme events. Additionally, you can use copula fitting to address the dependence structure among
the individual components of the returns that accounts for their correlated behavior. Copula fitting
involves selecting a copula model that best represents the observed dependence structure in the data
and estimating its parameters.

This example also shows how to handle autocorrelation, which refers to the correlation between
successive returns, and heteroskedasticity, which signifies the changing volatility over time.
Autocorrelation is commonly observed in financial return series data, so you must address it to
ensure accurate modeling and analysis.

Other examples explain the techniques that this example uses. For details about estimation of
generalized Pareto distributions (GPD) and copula simulation, see “Modeling Tail Data with the
Generalized Pareto Distribution” and “Simulating Dependent Random Variables Using Copulas”. For
another example applying the same approach to evaluate market risk, see the “Using Extreme Value
Theory and Copulas to Evaluate Market Risk” (Econometrics Toolbox).

Prepare Equity Index Data

Before applying EVT and fitting the data to a copula model, ensure that the observations are
approximately independent and identically distributed (iid). To overcome the issues of autocorrelation
(dependence on past values) and heteroskedasticity (changing variance over time) that violate the iid
assumption, you can use the Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) and Generalized
Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity (GARCH) models.

Load the equity index data from the Data_GlobalIdx1 file. The raw data consists of 2665
observations of daily closing values of the Canadian TSX Composite and French CAC 40 indexes
spanning the trading dates 27-April-1993 to 14-July-2003.

load Data_GlobalIdx1   % Import daily index closings
Data = Data(:,1:2);
series = string(series(1:2));

Plot these equity indexes to see their relative price movements of these equity indexes.

figure
dates = datetime(dates,'ConvertFrom','datenum');
plot(dates, ret2price(price2ret(Data)))
xlabel('Date')
ylabel('Index Value')
title ('Relative Daily Index Closings')
legend(series, 'Location', 'NorthWest')

Using Extreme Value Theory and Copula Fitting to Generate Synthetic Data

10-61