To perform this task ...
Use these types of models ...

“Performance Considerations” on page 14-65
All supported models on page 14-11

Trials vs. Paths

Monte Carlo simulation literature often uses different terminology for the evolution of the simulated
variables of interest, such as trials and paths. The following sections use the terms trial and path
interchangeably.

However, there are situations where you should distinguish between these terms. Specifically, the
term trial often implies the result of an independent random experiment (for example, the evolution
of the price of a single stock or portfolio of stocks). Such an experiment computes the average or
expected value of a variable of interest (for example, the price of a derivative security) and its
associated confidence interval.

By contrast, the term path implies the result of a random experiment that is different or unique from
other results, but that may or may not be independent.

The distinction between these terms is unimportant. It may, however, be useful when applied to
variance reduction techniques that attempt to increase the efficiency of Monte Carlo simulation by
inducing dependence across sample paths. A classic example involves pairwise dependence induced
by antithetic sampling, and applies to more sophisticated variance reduction techniques, such as
stratified sampling which is a variance reduction technique that constrains a proportion of sample
paths to specific subsets (or strata) of the sample space.

NTrials, NPeriods, and NSteps

SDE functions in the Financial Toolbox software use the parameters NTrials, NPeriods, and
NSteps as follows:

•
The input argument NTrials specifies the number of simulated trials or sample paths to
generate. This argument always determines the size of the third dimension (the number of pages)
of the output three-dimensional time series array Paths. Indeed, in a traditional Monte Carlo
simulation of one or more variables, each sample path is independent and represents an
independent trial.

•
The parameters NPeriods and NSteps represent the number of simulation periods and time
steps, respectively. Both periods and time steps are related to time increments that determine the
exact sequence of observed sample times. The distinction between these terms applies only to
issues of accuracy and memory management. For more information, see “Optimizing Accuracy:
About Solution Precision and Error” on page 14-66 and “Managing Memory” on page 14-65.

See Also
sde | bm | gbm | bates | merton | drift | diffusion | sdeddo | sdeld | cev | cir | heston | hwv |
sdemrd | rvm | roughbergomi | roughheston | ts2func | simulate | simByQuadExp |
simByEuler | simBySolution | | interpolate

Related Examples

•
“Base SDE Models” on page 14-16

•
“Drift and Diffusion Models” on page 14-19

SDEs

14-3