Greek-Neutral Portfolios of European Stock Options

This example shows how to create an equity option portfolio using the Black-Scholes model for
European options that is simultaneously delta, gamma, and vega neutral.

The option sensitivity measures familiar to most option traders are often referred to as the greeks:
delta, gamma, vega, lambda, rho, and theta. Delta is the price sensitivity of an option with respect to
changes in the price of the underlying asset. It represents a first-order sensitivity measure analogous
to duration in fixed income markets. Gamma is the sensitivity of an option's delta to changes in the
price of the underlying asset, and represents a second-order price sensitivity analogous to convexity
in fixed income markets. Vega is the price sensitivity of an option with respect to changes in the
volatility of the underlying asset. For more information, see “Pricing and Analyzing Equity
Derivatives” on page 2-39.

The greeks of a particular option are a function of the model used to price the option. However, given
enough different options to work with, a trader can construct a portfolio with any desired values for
its greeks. For example, to insulate the value of an option portfolio from small changes in the price of
the underlying asset, one trader might construct an option portfolio whose delta is zero. Such a
portfolio is then said to be "delta neutral." Another trader may want to protect an option portfolio
from larger changes in the price of the underlying asset, and so might construct a portfolio whose
delta and gamma are both zero. Such a portfolio is both delta and gamma neutral. A third trader may
want to construct a portfolio insulated from small changes in the volatility of the underlying asset in
addition to delta and gamma neutrality. Such a portfolio is then delta, gamma, and vega neutral.

Using the Black-Scholes model for European options, this example creates an equity option portfolio
that is simultaneously delta, gamma, and vega neutral. The value of a particular greek of an option
portfolio is a weighted average of the corresponding greek of each individual option. The weights are
the quantity of each option in the portfolio. Hedging an option portfolio thus involves solving a system
of linear equations, an easy process in MATLAB®.

Create Input Data Matrix

Create an input data matrix to summarize the relevant information. Each row of the matrix contains
the standard inputs to Financial Toolbox™ Black-Scholes suite of functions: column 1 contains the
current price of the underlying stock; column 2 the strike price of each option; column 3 the time to-
expiry of each option in years; column 4 the annualized stock price volatility; and column 5 the
annualized dividend rate of the underlying asset. Rows 1 and 3 are data related to call options, while
rows 2 and 4 are data related to put options.

DataMatrix = [100.000  100  0.2  0.3   0        % Call
              119.100  125  0.2  0.2   0.025    % Put
               87.200   85  0.1  0.23  0        % Call
              301.125  315  0.5  0.25  0.0333]; % Put

Assume that the annualized risk-free rate is 10% and is constant for all maturities of interest.

RiskFreeRate = 0.10;

For clarity, assign each column of DataMatrix to a column vector whose name reflects the type of
financial data in the column.

StockPrice   = DataMatrix(:,1);
StrikePrice  = DataMatrix(:,2);
ExpiryTime   = DataMatrix(:,3);

10
Solving Sample Problems

10-14