the coupon payment is called accrued interest. The purchase price, the price paid for a bond, is the
quoted market price plus accrued interest.

The maturity date of a bond is the date when the issuer returns the final face value, also known as the
redemption value or par value, to the buyer. The yield-to-maturity of a bond is the nominal compound
rate of return that equates the present value of all future cash flows (coupons and principal) to the
current market price of the bond.

Period

The period of a bond refers to the frequency with which the issuer of a bond makes coupon payments
to the holder.

Period of a Bond

Period Value
Payment Schedule

0
No coupons (Zero coupon bond)

1
Annual

2
Semiannual

3
Tri-annual

4
Quarterly

6
Bi-monthly

12
Monthly

Basis

The basis of a bond refers to the basis or day-count convention for a bond. Day count basis
determines how interest accrues over time for various instruments and the amount transferred on
interest payment dates. Basis is normally expressed as a fraction in which the numerator determines
the number of days between two dates, and the denominator determines the number of days in the
year.

For example, the numerator of actual/actual means that when determining the number of days
between two dates, count the actual number of days; the denominator means that you use the actual
number of days in the given year in any calculations (either 365 or 366 days depending on whether
the given year is a leap year). The calculation of accrued interest for dates between payments also
uses day count basis. Day count basis is a fraction of Number of interest accrual days / Days
in the relevant coupon period.

Note Although the concept of day count sounds deceptively simple, the actual calculation of day
counts can be complex. You can find a good discussion of day counts and the formulas for calculating
them in Chapter 5 of Stigum and Robinson, Money Market and Bond Calculations in “Bibliography”
on page A-2. For more information on Basis, see EMU and Market Conventions: Recent
Developments.

Supported day count conventions and basis values are:

2
Performing Common Financial Tasks

2-16