About Life Tables

Life tables are used for life insurance and work with the probability distribution of human mortality.
This distribution, which is age-dependent, has several characteristic features that are consequences
of biological, cultural, and behavioral factors. Usually, the practitioners of life studies use life tables
that contain age-dependent series for specific demographics. The tables are in a standard format with
standard notation that is specific to the life studies field. An example of a life table is shown in Table 1
from CDC life tables for the United States.

Often, these life tables can have numerous variations such as abridged tables (which pose challenges
due to the granularity of the data) and different termination criteria (that can make it difficult to
compare tables or to compute life expectancies).

Most raw life tables have one or more of the first three series in this table (qx, lx, and dx) and the
notation for these three series is standard in the field.

•
The qx series is basically the discrete hazard function for human mortality.

•
The lx series is the survival function multiplied by a radix of 100,000.

•
The dx series is the discrete probability density for the distribution as a function of age.

Financial Toolbox can handle arbitrary life table data supporting several standard models of mortality
and provides various interpolation methods to calibrate and analyze the life table data.

Although primarily designed for life insurance applications, the life tables functions
(lifetableconv, lifetablefit, and lifetablegen can also be used by social scientists,
behavioral psychologists, public health officials, and medical researchers.

Life Tables Theory

Life tables are based on hazard functions and survival functions which are, in turn, derived from
probability distributions. Specifically, given a continuous probability distribution, its cumulative
distribution function is F(x) and its probability density function is f(x) = d F(x)/dx.

For the analysis of mortality, the random variable of interest X is the distribution of ages at which
individuals die within a population. So, the probability that someone dies by age x is

Pr[X ≤x] = F(x)

The survival function, (s(x)), which characterizes the probability that an individual lives beyond a
specified age x > 0, is

2
Performing Common Financial Tasks

2-44