•
"square-root" — In the square root method, the weights assigned to each data point decrease
in a square root fashion as the data points move further back in time. The most recent data point
has the highest weight, and the weights decrease progressively for older data points.

•
"linear" — The linear method assigns weights to each data point that decrease in a linear
fashion as the data points move further back in time. This method can be useful for capturing
trends and price movements while minimizing the impact of outliers or extreme values.

•
"square" — The square method assigns weights to each data point that decrease in a square
fashion as the data points move further back in time. The most recent data point has the highest
weight, and the weights decrease progressively for older data points.

•
"exponential" — An exponential moving average (EMA) places a greater weight and
significance on the most recent data points. The exponential moving average is also referred to as
the exponentially weighted moving average. An exponentially weighted moving average reacts
more significantly to recent price changes than a simple moving average (SMA), which applies an
equal weight to all observations in the period.

•
"triangular" — The triangular moving average (TMA) is a variation of the SMA that assigns
weights to the data points in a triangular pattern. This method aims to give more weight to the
data points in the middle of the moving average period and less weight to the data points at the
beginning and end of the period.

•
"modified" — A modified moving average (MMA) is an indicator that shows the average value of
a security's price over a period of time. It is also known as the running moving average (RMA) or
smoothed moving average (SMMA). Modified moving averages are similar to simple moving
averages, but all subsequent points are calculated by first adding the new price and then
subtracting the last average from the resulting sum.

•
"custom" — A moving average using a custom method is a type of moving average that uses a
custom measure of weights to calculate the average, instead of just taking the close price of each
bar as most other moving averages do. The custom measure calculates the difference between the
lowest lows and highest highs over different data points.

Data Types: char | string

windowSize — Number of observations of the input series to include in moving average
positive integer

Number of observations of the input series to include in moving average, specified as a scalar positive
integer. The observations include (windowSize - 1) previous data points and the current data point.

Note The windowSize argument applies only to moving averages whose type is 'simple',
'square-root', 'linear', 'square', 'exponential', 'triangular', or 'modified'.

Data Types: double

weights — Custom weights used to compute moving average
vector

Custom weights used to compute the moving average, specified as a vector.

Note The length of weights (N) determines the size of the moving average window (windowSize).
The weights argument applies only to a 'custom' type of moving average.

15
Functions

15-1186