Capital Asset Pricing Model with Missing Data

This example illustrates implementation of the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) in the presence of
missing data.

The Capital Asset Pricing Model

The Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) is a venerable but often-maligned tool to characterize
comovements between asset and market prices. Although many issues arise in its implementation and
interpretation, one problem that practitioners face is to estimate the coefficients of the CAPM with
incomplete stock price data.

Given a host of assumptions that can be found in the references (see Sharpe [3 on page 9-39],
Lintner [2 on page 9-39], Jarrow [1 on page 9-39], and Sharpe, et. al. [4 on page 9-39]), the CAPM
concludes that asset returns have a linear relationship with market returns. Specifically, given the
return of all stocks that constitute a market denoted as M and the return of a riskless asset denoted as
C, the CAPM states that the return of each asset R(i) in the market has the expectational form

E[R(i)] = C + b(i) * (E[M] - C)

for assets i = 1, ... , n, where b(i) is a parameter that specifies the degree of comovement
between a given asset and the underlying market. In other words, the expected return of each asset
is equal to the return on a riskless asset plus a risk-adjusted expected market return net of riskless
asset returns. The collection of parameters b(1), ... , b(n) are called asset betas.

Note that the beta of an asset has the form

b(i) = cov(R(i),M)/var(M)

which is the ratio of the covariance between asset and market returns divided by the variance of
market returns. If an asset has a beta equal to 1, the asset is said to move with the market; if an asset
has a beta greater than 1, the asset is said to be more volatile than the market; and if an asset has a
beta less than 1, the asset is said to be less volatile than the market.

Estimation of the CAPM

The standard form of the CAPM model for estimation is a linear model with additional parameters for
each asset to characterize residual errors. For each of n assets with m samples of observed asset
returns R(k, i), market returns M(k), and riskless asset returns C(k), the estimation model has
the form

R(k,i) = a(i) + C(k) + b(i) * (M(k) - C(k)) + V(k,i)

for samples k = 1, ... , m and assets i = 1, ... , n, where a(i) is a parameter that
specifies the non-systematic return of an asset, b(i) is the asset beta, and V(k,i) is the residual
error for each asset with associated random variable V(i).

The collection of parameters a(1), ... , a(n) are called asset alphas. The strict form of the
CAPM specifies that alphas must be zero and that deviations from zero are the result of temporary
disequilibria. In practice, however, assets may have non-zero alphas, where much of active
investment management is devoted to the search for assets with exploitable non-zero alphas.

To allow for the possibility of non-zero alphas, the estimation model generally seeks to estimate
alphas and to perform tests to determine if the alphas are statistically equal to zero.

9
Regression with Missing Data

9-34