combining the investment analyst views (or "observations of the future") and some prior knowledge
about μ.

In addition, assume the prior knowledge that μ is a normally distributed random variable μ N π, C
[1, 2 on page 4-229]. In the absence of any views (observations), the prior mean π is likely to be the
equilibrium returns, implied from the equilibrium portfolio holding. In practice, the applicable
equilibrium portfolio holding is not necessarily the equilibrium portfolio, but rather a target optimal
portfolio that the investment analyst would use in the absence of additional views on the market, such
as the portfolio benchmark, an index, or even the current portfolio. C represents the uncertainty in
the prior and the Black-Litterman model makes the assumption that the structure of C is τΣ. τ is a
small constant, and many authors use different values. A detailed discussion about τ can be found in
[3 on page 4-229].

Observations are necessary to perform a statistical inference on μ. In the Black-Litterman model, the
observations are views about future asset returns expressed at the portfolio level. A view is the
expected return of a portfolio composed of the universe of k assets. Usually, the portfolio return has
uncertainty, so an error term is added to catch the departure. Assume that there is a total of v views.
For a view i, pi is a row vector with dimension 1 x k, and qi is a scalar [2 on page 4-229].

qi = Ε pi * r
μ + εi , i = 1, 2, . . . , v

You can stack the v views vertically, and Ω is the covariance of the uncertainties from all views.
Assume that the uncertainties are independent.

q = Ε P * r
μ + ε, ε N 0, Ω , Ω = diag ω1, ω2, . . . ωv .

Note that Ω does not necessarily need to be a diagonal matrix. The investment analyst can choose the
structure of Ω to account for their uncertainties in the views [4 on page 4-229].

Under the previous assumption r
N μ, Σ , it follows that

q = P * μ + ε, ε N 0, Ω , Ω = diag ω1, ω2, . . . ωv .

The Bayesian Definition of the Black-Litterman Model

Based on Bayesian statistics, it is known that: posterior ∝likelihood * prior.

4
Mean-Variance Portfolio Optimization Tools

4-228