•
11 = 30/360E (ICMA)

•
12 = actual/365 (ISDA)

•
13 = BUS/252

For more information, see “Basis” on page 2-16.

Data Types: double

BusinessDayConvention — Business day conventions
actual (default) | character vector

Business day conventions, specified as the comma-separated pair consisting of
'BusinessDayConvention' and a character vector. The selection for business day convention
determines how non-business days are treated. Non-business days are defined as weekends plus any
other date that businesses are not open (for example, statutory holidays). Values are:

•
actual — Non-business days are effectively ignored. Cash flows that fall on non-business days
are assumed to be distributed on the actual date.

•
follow — Cash flows that fall on a non-business day are assumed to be distributed on the
following business day.

•
modifiedfollow — Cash flows that fall on a non-business day are assumed to be distributed on
the following business day. However if the following business day is in a different month, the
previous business day is adopted instead.

•
previous — Cash flows that fall on a non-business day are assumed to be distributed on the
previous business day.

•
modifiedprevious — Cash flows that fall on a non-business day are assumed to be distributed
on the previous business day. However if the previous business day is in a different month, the
following business day is adopted instead.

Data Types: char

PayAccruedPremium — Flag for accrued premiums paid upon default
true (default) | integer with value 1 or 0

Flag for accrued premiums paid upon default, specified as the comma-separated pair consisting of
'PayAccruedPremium' and a N-by-1 vector of Boolean flags that is true (default) if accrued
premiums are paid upon default, false otherwise.

Data Types: logical

Notional — Contract notional values
10MM (default) | positive or negative integer

Contract notional values, specified as the comma-separated pair consisting of 'Notional' and a N-
by-1vector of integers. Use positive integer values for long positions and negative integer values for
short positions.

Data Types: double

TimeStep — Number of days as time step for numerical integration
10 (days) (default) | nonnegative integer

Number of days to take as time step for the numerical integration, specified as the comma-separated
pair consisting of 'TimeStep' and a nonnegative integer.

cdsprice

15-629