Handle and Convert Dates

In this section...

“Date Formats” on page 2-2

“Date Conversions” on page 2-3

“Current Date and Time” on page 2-7

“Determining Specific Dates” on page 2-8

“Determining Holidays” on page 2-8

“Determining Cash-Flow Dates” on page 2-9

Date Formats

Virtually all financial data derives from a time series, functions in Financial Toolbox have extensive
date-handling capabilities. The toolbox functions support date or date-and-time formats as character
vectors, datetime arrays, or serial date numbers.

•
Date character vectors are text that represent date and time, which you can use with multiple
formats. For example, 'dd-mmm-yyyy HH:MM:SS', 'dd-mmm-yyyy', and 'mm/dd/yyyy' are all
supported text formats for a date character vector. Most often, you work with date character
vectors (such as 14-Sep-1999) when dealing with dates.

•
Datetime arrays, created using datetime, are the best data type for representing points in time.
datetime values have flexible display formats and up to nanosecond precision, and can account
for time zones, daylight saving time, and leap seconds. When datetime objects are used as inputs
to other Financial Toolbox functions, the format of the input datetime object is preserved. For
example:

originalDate = datetime('now','Format','yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss'); 
  % Find the next business day 
  b = busdate(originalDate)

b =

datetime

2021-05-04 15:59:34

•
Serial date numbers represent a calendar date as the number of days that have passed since a
fixed base date. In MATLAB software, serial date number 1 is January 1,0000 A.D. Financial
Toolbox works internally with serial date numbers (such as, 730377). MATLAB also uses serial
time to represent fractions of days beginning at midnight. For example, 6 p.m. equals 0.75 serial
days, so 6:00 p.m. on 14-Sep-1999, in MATLAB, is serial date number 730377.75

Note If you specify a two-digit year, MATLAB assumes that the year lies within the 100-year period
centered on the current year. See the function datenum for specific information. MATLAB internal
date handling and calculations generate no ambiguous values. However, whenever possible, use
serial date numbers or date character vectors containing four-digit years.

2
Performing Common Financial Tasks

2-2